BASIC COMBAT RULES
ART BY: TOM EDWARDS
106
Combat is a frequent occurrence in The Magitech
Chronicles . Frequent enough that this chapter is the
primary reason why I chose to write my own system
rather than adapt one of the more popular ones.
Combat is important in an RPG, but if you aren’t
careful it can take over your game. You can find your
sessions devolving into fifteen minute bridge scenes
connecting three hour combats, and that’s no fun for
most players or GMs. At least, it isn't fun for me, or the
people I play with.
With that in mind we’ve created a simple combat
system. Many areas, such as specific modifiers, are left
up to the GM so that it can be arbitrated on the fly
rather than spending 20 minutes hunting down a rule.
We give you the basics, and let you take it from there.
RUNNING COMBAT
The Magitech Chronicles combat is broken into
rounds, with each character acting according to their
initiative score. Each character has two actions, though
different powers and abilities can provide more.
Characters with a higher initiative act first, and the
initiative order continues sequentially until all charac-
ters have exhausted their actions, or passed. The round
finishes, and the next one begins, until combat ends.
COMBAT OVERVIEW:
1 - Roll Combat Initiative. This lasts the entire fight.
2 - Begin with the highest initiative. The acting cha-
racter may move, attack, sprint or use both of
their actions in a gamemaster-approved way.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
107
When making a roll masteries succeed on a 4, 5, or 6
rather than the usual 5 or 6.
3 - Proceed to the next highest character on the list,
and repeat step 2 until you reach the end of the
round.
4 - Begin the next round.
DETERMINING INITIATIVE:
Each character’s Base Initiative is equal to their agil-
ity + archetype bonus.
A character’s Combat Initiative is equal to Base Ini-
tiative + d6, and resets aInitiativet the start of each
combat. You'll kick off combat by having all characters
roll a d6, and the game master doing the same for the
NPCs (non- player characters).
INNATE DEFENSES:
During character creation all characters purchased
Innate Defenses, spread between Brace, Dodge, and
Skepticism. The GM decides which defense is relevant
against a given attack, but in general Brace blocks
melee attacks, dodge blocks ranged, and skepticism
resists spells.
ACTIVE DEFENSES:
Characters also purchased either body armor, or
spellarmor. Some may possess a racial armor rating,
like hatchlings. If your character possesses armor or
resistance from any source make sure those were re-
corded. This is where you'll be using those defenses.
MASTERIES:
Each character begins play with a mastery, and there
is a high likelihood it will be applied to a combat skill.
ACCURACY:
Certain weapons or skills add accuracy dice. Each
point of accuracy provides one die to the roll.
RANGE:
A weapon may fire up to its range attribute with
no penalty. It may fire up to double range at a +2 DT,
and up to triple range at a +4 DT.
ARMOR PENETRATION:
Certain weapons negate some or all armor. AP sub-
tracts directly from armor, with a minimum of zero.
MOVEMENT & SPRINTING:
Characters may spend an action to move their agil-
ity * 2 in squares or hexes, whichever you're using. If
you're doing this abstractly with no combat map, then
I usually use meters or yards.
Characters may instead choose to sprint, which
consumes both actions but allows them to move their
agility * 5 in squares. Sprinting lowers brace to 0 for
that combat round, but raises dodge by 1.
ROLLING TO HIT:
A character may spend an action attacking some-
one, casting a spell, or entering the abort code to the
freighter’s self-destruct sequence. Your GM ultimately
decides exactly what constitutes an action, but in
general it’s any specific task that can be solved with
a single relevant die roll.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
108
Let’s say that Nara cast her void bolt at a Tech
Demon. Tech Demons come from Void catalysts, and
often have void resistance. This one has 3 points.
Nara’s 6 points of damage is reduced by 3, and the
demon takes 3 points of damage. She barely scratched
it.
To resolve an attack, cast a spell, or use most skills a
character rolls a number of d6 dice equal to their
relevant skill, plus their relevant attribute.
For example, if Aran has a 5 agility and a 4 ranged,
then he'll roll 9 dice when casting a spell through his
spellrifle. Each die with a result of 5 or 6 counts as a
success.
If their total number of successes equals their oppo-
nent’s defense, the attack hits and damage is deter-
mined. Each extra success increases the damage by
one point.
DETERMINING DAMAGE:
Each weapon or spell has a fixed damage rating.
This damage is applied against any relevant armor or
resistance, and the remainder is subtracted from the
character's hit points.
In the example above if Aran rolled 4 successes and
his opponent had a 2 skepticism, then Aran would do 2
additional points of damage because he has 2 extra
successes.
See the spellcasting chapter for details on spellcast-
ing, but Aran could also have increased the magnitude
by spending more spell pool, which would have further
raised the damage.
APPLYING DEFENSES:
Check the spell or attack type to determine if the
target possesses any relevant defenses. In the case of a
void bolt the target would need either void resistance,
or magic resistance to reduce the damage.
RECORDING DAMAGE:
Let’s say our demon friend has 19 hit points. He takes
3 so after Nara’s spell he’s got 16 remaining. Odds are
good she’ll switch to another type of spell, like fire, so
that she can avoid his hefty resistance on the next
attack. Hopefully her next spell is more lethal.
Let’s say it happens to do 16 points of damage, reduc-
ing the demon to zero hit points. What happens?
If a character is reduced to zero or less hit points they
gain the downed status until someone uses a heal spell
or first aid to stabilize them. Downed characters are
incapacitated, unconscious, and pretty well screwed.
If a character takes more than their fortitude in
damage while downed, they die. Note that this does
not apply to the attack that gives them the downed
state. If a spell knocks them to -10 HP and they have a 3
fortitude, then they will only die if they take 3 points
past that attack.
The character will not awaken until they reach 1 hit
point.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
109
which makes Drifter brewers very popular.
With first aid our demon would be feeling good after
about three days, and fully healed after four. Brutal.
Instant healing is amazing , and everyone wants it.
LINGERING DAMAGE:
Some attacks inflict lingering damage. Acid will
continue to corrode. Fire will continue to burn. Boiling
water will continue to scald. Lingering damage has a
countdown of sorts. On round one it does full damage,
then one less each round until it is gone.
For example if Briff were set ablaze from a fire bolt
spell that inflicted 3 lingering damage he would take 3
points immediately, then 2 points next round, then 1
point, and then 0. High levels of lingering damage
inflict a LOT of damage. Lingering 3 will inflict 6
damage. Lingering 10 will inflict 55 damage before it
expires.
HEALING & RECOVERY:
Let’s say that our tech demon’s body is clinging to life.
He doesn’t have a life mage to heal him, so he has to
heal normally. All characters gain their fortitude in hit
points back each day. All characters also regain all
spell points each day, assuming they got a good night's
rest.
This means that a character who’s ass has been
severely handed to them can require 3 weeks of bedrest
to get back to full hit points. Our demon has a 3 fort, so
he’d need seven days to get the 21 hit points back unless
he’s got a demon buddy with first aid.
A successful check using the first aid skill doubles the
amount of hit points recovered, but even that means 4-6
a day for most people. This is why magical healing is
so valuable, and why no life mage will ever lack for a
job. Healing beers are always highly sought after, too,
FLANKING & EDGE:
Certain skills and abilities will award the character
with an Edge. Edge provides +2 successes to all attacks.
Scoundrels, for example, gain an edge whenever their
opponents are unaware of their presence.
Two characters working together may gain an edge
by flanking their opponent. If a character is facing two
or more opponents, and cannot place their back to a
wall, then all their opponents are considered to have
an edge.
Note that you cannot stack edges. +2 successes is the
maximum bonus.
HESITATING:
As long as it is a character's turn and they have an
action remaining they can choose to hesitate. This
removes them from the initiative order, and they keep
their remaining actions. They may re-enter the initia-
tive order at any time, and if they do so they go before
anyone else on that initiative. That remains their new
initiative for the remainder of that combat.
GETTING THE DROP:
Getting the drop is basically an ambush. If your oppo-
nent is unaware of your presence, and you have not yet
initiated combat, then you get the drop on them. This
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
110
others. What do you do if your group is a bunch of
relic hunters and scoundrels? What if no one took Life
magic?
You can add the lesser template to the encounters.
This template makes the monsters in the bestiary
dramatically weaker, so your party will have a much
easier time overcoming them. A lesser Wyrm kill still
lets the party say they killed a dragon.
gives you one full round of combat before your oppo-
nent(s) can enter the initiative order. You may take
both full actions, as may everyone on your side if the
enemy is unaware of them when combat begins.
SPLITTING ACTIONS:
A character may split an action into multiple parts,
but doing so requires them to evenly split their dice
pool. They gain a 1 die penalty for each extra action.
For example, if Aran wanted to attack twice with his
nine dice, then he'd lose a die for splitting his action,
which leaves him with 8 dice. Aran would get 4 dice for
each attack.
COMMON PENALTIES:
• Reduced visibility:
(cover)
+2 ranged difficulty
• Blinded: +4 difficulty all attacks
• Prone: +2 difficulty and requires
action to stand
• Sickened: +1 difficulty per level of
severity
• Beyond normal:
range
+2 difficulty per range
increment
Combat is the Magitech Chronicles is designed to be
lethal. Don't get caught outside of cover, and armor up.
Some groups, though, are less combat proficient than
SCALING ENCOUNTERS TO FIT YOUR PARTY
LESSER TEMPLATE:
• Cut hit points by 50%
• Lower all defenses by 1, minimum 1.
• Lower armor and resistance by 2.
• Lower all dice pools by 3.
Sometimes, though, your party has the opposite
problem. What if they wreck everything you throw at
them? What if you have nine players, and they're all
geared for combat? Use the greater template, and add
more demons.
GREATER TEMPLATE:
• Increase hit points by 50%
• Increase all defenses by 1.
• Raise armor and resistance by 2.
• Raise all dice pools by 3.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
ART BY: TOM EDWARDS
PILOTING & SPACE COMBAT
111
Combat happens often in The Magitech Chroni-
cles , and much of it takes place in the void. Dragons
brawl with starships, and you as the GM need to keep
track of it all.
I am a science fiction author by trade, and I had to
decide how much actual science I wanted to use. Sim-
plicity is the watchword of The Magitech Chroni-
cles , but we still want fairly realistic combat.
Here’s how space combat differs from regular
combat:
VELOCITY
All ships have a velocity rating. Each turn a pilot may
spend an action to increase or decrease velocity by 1.
Speeding up and slowing down takes concentration if
you›re a mage, physical effort if you›re a Wyrm, and
fuel if you’re in a conventional starship.
Most vessels have a velocity of 3. Each time they raise
their speed they multiply the velocity times the speed.
If a vessel can move 10, and a pilot spends both of their
actions to accelerate to velocity 3, then they are now
moving 30 (squares or hexes, depending on what you
have handy), and will move 30 that turn.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
112
When the ship moves again each move will be 30.
Not 20. Not 10. A full 30, like it or not. You are moving
at speed, until you decide to decelerate.
When targeting a vessel in combat their dodge is
increased by their velocity, so if a cruiser had a dodge
of 4, and was going velocity 2, then their effective
dodge would be a 6.
Piloting a starship with magic requires a spelldrive,
which is wired into the core of the ship. Every spell-
drive is different, and some are built to only work
with specific aspects. Some can work with all aspects,
though such vessels are exceedingly rare. Most spell-
drives are very specialized.
The Mark VII above takes void, life, and fire, but can
be customized to work with other aspects.
MAGICAL PILOTING
AIR DRIVES:
Air capable drives are generally limited to atmos-
pheric flight. Air drives can accept dream as a substi-
tute, since the aspects are sympathetic and dream will
morph to fit its environment.
LIFE DRIVES:
Life drives create plasma in an engine chamber, and
expel that plasma to create thrust. They can be used in
atmosphere, or post-atmospheric flight.
DREAM DRIVES:
Dream drives literally warp reality to move the ves-
sel. Dream is nearly as versatile as void, though usually
slower, and with less precision.
FIRE DRIVES:
Fire drives are extremely similar to life drives, though
far more popular. They create fire, which is expelled
through an engine as thrust. Fire drives can be used in
both atmospheric and post-atmospheric flight.
VOID DRIVES:
Void drives are the cream of the crop, as void is the
undisputed master of propulsion. Void can literally
teleport, and uses gravity magic for moment. Void
drives can be used anywhere, including underwater.
EARTH DRIVES:
Earth drives are more common than you’d expect.
They summon highly volatile minerals into an engine
chamber, where they are converted into thrust. Earth
drives can typically be used in atmospheric and post-
atmospheric flight.
SPIRIT DRIVES:
Spirit drives convert souls into propulsion, and are
only employed by the Krox. Even the Krox often look
askance of such devices, though many necromancers
take a very waste not want not approach to souls and
have no problem using such drives.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
113
now universal, but some are limited to offensive spells,
or defensive spells like wards.
A vessel with 3 matrices could have one mage ward-
ing the vessel, while one mage is evading, and another
is casting a disintegrate.
Mages can all contribute magic to the same spell if
their matrices are universal. This allows many mages to
power spells, vastly increasing their magnitude. This is
how magic can stand up to the mighty Ternus fleets.
The die reflects their current elevation, and is the
only time a d20 is useful in this system.
If your vessel goes beyond that you can track it anoth-
er way, but make sure each vessel has an elevation.
This requires a little tracking, but what we’ve found in
combat is that most ships fight as if they’re on a 2
dimensional battlefield, and only slightly vary their
elevation.
WATER DRIVES:
Water drives are the rarest of all, outside of Dream.
They typically only function in underwater environ-
ments.
A mage needs a spell matrix to connect to a spell
drive. The mage taps the sigils on the bronze, gold, and
silver rings depending on how powerful a spell or
effect they are attempting to use. Most matrices are
SPELL MATRICES
Outside of velocity there aren›t too many differences
from standard combat. You›re just on a larger map, and
(hopefully) in a ship that has a lot more armor and hit
points than you do. There›s only one wrinkle. Ships can
move in all three dimensions, so how do you represent
that on a two dimensional map? All vessels and scenery
will place a die next to them if they leave elevation 1.
ELEVATION
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
114
Also remember that elevation can go negative if
you are in space.
ACTIONS
PILOT ACTIONS:
• Move
Pilots must fly the ship the entire movement
allocated each round. They may spend an action to
accelerate or decelerate within the limits of the
ship's velocity. See below.
• Attacks
Attack resolves against target ship’s Dodge, then
Shield Strength is subtracted from damage, and
damage is applied to shield HP first.
Beam Weapons:
Guided Weapons:
Missiles and torpedos have guidance systems
providing higher accuracy. They can, however, be shot
down by active defenses and deflected/disrupted by
passive defenses.
Depletion:
Firing a weapon puts it into the “depleted” state. An
action must be spent to recharge the weapon before
it can be fired again.
Each vessel's attacks / actions are equal to the
total of crewed consoles or spellmatrices. (note: an
advanced AI can take the place of a crewmember, but
still requires a console to act during the turn)
Scanning with sensors reveals information about
target.
• Perception
DT1 = Public ID information, positions
DT2 = Velocity, possible trajectory
DT3 = Trajectory, possible destinations
DT4* = Technical details about a particular ship,
DT based on value of knowledge
Spend an action increasing/decreasing speed by 1
velocity increment.
• Accelerate/Decelerate
The pilot may perform one recharge action for free
each round, either recharging a weapon system or
adding +25% HP to the shield.
• Recharge
Each power core beyond the first provides an
additional recharge action that can be used. An action
must still be expended on recharging.
• Power Cores
CREW ACTIONS:
Any crew may perform the following actions with a
console instead of executing an attack.
Engineering roll DT2. +10% shield power recharge
through efficient shield management
• Balance Shields
Repair +10% HP through efficient system rerouting.
• Damage Control
Engineering roll DT4, initiate a recharge action,
even if no recharge actions remain. Useable once per
combat.
• Scrounge Power
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
115
If a ship’s systems are damaged, an Engineering
roll DT = number of systems damaged. Successful roll
indicates temporary repair, lasting remainder of com-
bat. Further damage can undo repairs.
• Repair System
Hesitate action, preparing countermeasures. Upon
attack, Engineering roll adds successes to dodge when
countermeasures are activate.
• Ready Countermeasures
Obtain weapons lock, adding Engineering roll suc-
cesses to all Gunnery rolls by all crew.
• Lock On
Target a ship’s systems, aiming for weak points.
Perception DT = criticality of system to locate target,
attack at penalty = perception DT, vs. opponent’s Skep-
ticism instead of Dodge. Successful attack results in
no HP damage, but loss of system until repaired.
• Called Shot
Scanning with sensors reveals information about
target.
• Perception
DT1 = Public ID information, positions
DT2 = Velocity, possible trajectory
DT3 = Trajectory, possible destinations
DT4* = Technical details about a particular ship,
DT based on value of knowledge
COMBAT MANEUVERS:
Pilots may spend an action to initiate any of the
following maneuvers.
Hesitate and prep the Barrel Roll maneuver. Upon
enemy attack, add 2x piloting roll successes to dodge.
Must be at velocity 2 or higher.
• Barrel Roll
Match velocity and stay on enemy’s tail. Requires +1
velocity higher than enemy. Add piloting roll successes
to Gunnery.
Flip and Burn – if being pursued, drop -1 velocity
and perform a 180 degree turn, and take an attack.
Dodge -2.
• Pursuit
Take a single attack during the move action, at
any point during the move, adding piloting success to
Gunnery. Must be at +1 velocity higher than enemy.
• Strafe
If in radio contact, taunt your opponent. Add Nego-
tiation successes to Piloting until opponent no longer
taunted (opposed Negotiation each round).
• Taunt
if opponent has successfully obtained weapons
lock, the pilot can attempt to break it off through
evasive maneuvers. Piloting roll vs. DT = lock on bonus.
Ship Captains may spend an action on the following.
Rally – inspire crew, +2 all crew actions.
• Break Off
Warfare roll DT = bonus to either Piloting or Gun-
nery desired.