broadcast. Our planet has passed the Roche point.
Every child can tell you what that means now. The first
signs are clear. You can look out your window, and see
chunks of rock torn loose from the pavement, ripped
into the void by titanic gravitational forces. Our entire
world is dissolving into asteroids and debris, which will
be swallowed by the sun. Our only hope is fleeing our
world.
But where can we go? The sector is a cold place, and
no world could possibly take in so many refugees.
And how would we even get them off world? Transports
have been working at capacity, but less than 4% of our
population has been saved thus far. The gravitational
fluctuations makes it difficult, and the asteroids will
make any space flight perilous. Within a week those
still trapped will be past saving.
“... Seven months ago Kemet was a thriving world
with four billion citizens. Then the comet came.
Our scientists realized it would trigger an extinction
level event, and each day it grew larger in the sky.
A call went out to our allies in the sector. Mages
and scientists and Wyrms came, each pooling their
abilities. Their magics diverted the comet’s course,
though it was a near thing. We rejoiced. For a time.
The comet’s damage wasn’t visible at first, but it
soon became evident that our world was doomed. The
comet had altered our orbit, sending us in a spiral
toward the sun. We’ve all seen the simulation they’ve
WHAT THE GAME IS ABOUT
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
02
create healers. Void Catalysts create battle mages.
Dream Catalysts create illusionists. All are potent in
their own way, and galactic empires have risen and
fallen to control them. The brave and the foolhardy
journey to remote nebulas in search of power. Most
find death. The survivors, though, may one day become
gods themselves -- if they pillage enough magic.
The Magitech Chronicles RPG allows you to
play a character in this chaotic universe. You can be
one of the mages to claim power from dead gods. Maybe
you’re a tech mage who relies on a suit of sophisticated
spellarmor to protect you from supernatural horrors.
Perhaps you’re a war mage who channels spells
through your blade, or a spellsniper picking off oppo-
nents from the shadows. The possibilities are endless.
I have accepted that I will not make it of myself,
though I still go to the spaceport each morning in the
hopes that a vessel will take me. I have nothing to
offer. I cannot fight. I am no mage, or mercenary. So I
will die, forgotten. Void willing, you escape my fate...”
-- Unknown
The Magitech Chronicles takes place in a
vast galaxy where magic exists alongside technology.
Some worlds, like ancient Terra, lacked magic but
made do by harnessing their environment. Others
were blessed with a Catalyst -- the body of a god who
died during the Godswar. Catalysts are pure magic,
and come in one or more aspects. These aspects
determine which powers they grant mages, and those
powers shape their surrounding cultures. Life Catalysts
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
BASIC MECHANICS & CONCEPTS
ART BY: TOM EDWARDS
03
A powerful character may visit a dozen sites of
power, stealing a bit of magic from each. This magic
also extends your life, and if you steal enough you
may just become a god yourself.
Many adventures will center around a specific
catalyst, and visiting one can be a massive, and very
lethal undertaking. Even the act of taking magic can
kill you, if you are not careful.
Each Catalyst corresponds to one or more aspects
of magic, drawn from the legendary Circle of Eight.
You can learn more about that in the magic section,
but the takeaway is that during character creation
you will get to choose the type of magic you begin
play with, and that choice will dramatically influence
your character’s abilities.
Want your Spellsniper to be a healer? Might be aw-
fully handy to heal from a rooftop thirty meters up.
The Magitech Chronicles follows in the foot-
steps of many great roleplaying games, and utilizes
mechanics similar to games you may already be famil-
iar with. Below you’ll find an overview of important
concepts and systems. Our basic design philosophy
is all about simplicity. We’ve endeavored to create a
lightweight rules set that is easy for both players and
GMs to understand, while still being robust enough to
allow players to endlessly customize their characters.
CATALYSTS - THE BIG HOOK
The Magitech Chronicles is set in the wake
of the Godswar, and dead gods litter the galaxy. Your
characters can gain power by visiting those Catalysts,
and stealing a piece of the magic contained in that
god’s corpse. This can be anything from the moon-
sized Skull of Xal, to the sacred pool of life under the
Great Tree on Shaya.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
04
DT 1 = A simple task. Simple computer research, or a
basic knowledge check.
DT 2 = A moderately difficult task requiring concen-
tration. Basic coding, or repairing a device.
DT 3 = A difficult task that most people will fail.
Disarming a bomb on a timer. Convincing an enemy to
help you.
DT 4 = Something many people consider impossible.
Piloting a shuttle with no engines through re-entry, and
landing.
DT 5 = Why are you even trying to do this?
Characters may gain an edge through a variety of
means. If they have an edge they gain +2 successes for
that action. Gaining edge through multiple sources
does not stack, and some abilities will nullify edge.
Characters gain favor dice when they describe their
actions in a way that adds to the narrative. The GM
may choose to award between 1-3 favor dice to any
roll if they approve of the character’s description.
These bonuses stack with edge. Characters are
encouraged not to try to game this system, and GMs
are encouraged to hold their ground if players are
fishing for dice.
Maybe you’d prefer dream, so you can put targets
into a deep slumber without killing them. Maybe
you’re a straight assassin, and disintegrating your
target’s face with a void bolt is more your style.
You get to choose.
Whenever a character needs to make an attack, use
a skill, or take almost any other actions they will have
to roll to determine if they succeed. This is handled as
follows:
• GM sets a difficulty threshold (or DT)
• Player rolls a number of d6s equal to the
Attribute + Skill
• If Skill is a Mastery, all 4, 5, and 6s count as a
success.
• If Skill is not a Mastery, all 5, and 6s count as a
success.
• Compare total successes to DT. If the total
successes are less than the DT, the action fails.
• If the action succeeds, all successes past the DT
are added to damage or effect.
For example, let’s say Aran is trying to pilot a
heavily damaged spellfighter before it crashes into a
mountainside. The GM sets a difficulty threshold (DT) of
3. Aran rolls Agility + Pilot (11) d6s. Piloting is NOT a
mastery, so he only counts the 5s and 6s. He gets four
successes. The action succeeds with one extra. In
combat that extra success adds directly to damage, and
some spells or abilities will trigger additional effects if
you beat the DT by a certain number of successes.
THE BASIC SYSTEM
DIFFICULTY THRESHOLDS
EDGE
FAVOR
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
05
• Gain an edge and remove all negative modifiers
to one roll.
Characters do not need to purchase a flaw if they
do not wish to, but if they do not then they may not
earn luck. GMs are the ultimate arbiters of whether or
not the player earns a luck, and can decide how stingy
they want to be based on how much luck they want
in their games. The flaws system exists to incentivize
people into picking disadvantages that are actual
flaws and not flaws in name only. Flaws are further
cover in the Perks and Flaws section.
Luck is a very special system in that the only way to
gain it is through using your character’s Flaw. Each time
your character voluntarily suffers from their flaw in a
way that negatively impacts them they qualify for a luck
point. Characters may spend luck in any of the following
ways:
• Reroll any roll.
• Cause an opponent to reroll.
• Automatically avoid a single attack.
LUCK & FLAWS
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
ART BY: TOM EDWARDS
06
• True Mage (Relic Hunter, Artificer, Illusionist,
Flame Reader, Eradicator, Summoner, Shaman,
Necromancer, Healer)
• Dedicate (Paladin, Soulcatcher)
• Scoundrel (Larcenist, Spellsniper)
• Warrior (War Mage, Tech Mage)
• Mercenary (Captain, Mage Killer)
• All attributes start at 2
• Character has 5 points to spend
• No attribute higher than 5
Each player (exc. the Game Master) creates a character
to represent themselves in the Magitech Chronicles
universe. Below you will find an overview of the rules.
Comments are enabled on our website, so please feel
free to leave feedback!
• Drifter: (+1 Fort, +1 Agi, Cast Iron Stomach)
• Human: (+1 Any, +1 Skepticism)
• Shayan: (+1 Appearance, +1 Reason, +1 Spell
Pool, Delayed Aging)
• Hatchling: (+2 Armor, +1 Fort, Breath Attack)
CHARACTER CREATION OVERVIEW
STEP 1 - CHOOSE A RACE
STEP 2 - CHOOSE AN ARCHETYPE & PATH
STEP 3 - ASSIGN ATTRIBUTES
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
07
• Distribute 3 points between Brace, Skepticism, &
Dodge.
• Brace cannot be higher than fortitude. Skepti-
cism cannot be higher than will. Dodge cannot
be higher than agility.
• Hit points = (fort x 5) + archetype bonus
• Spell pool = (will x 3) + archetype bonus
• Determine amount of starting currency from
your Archetype.
• Purchase armor, a weapon, or any extra equip-
ment your character would possess.
That’s it! Complete the steps above and you’re ready
to rock. Let’s jump into races.
• All characters except mercenaries are awarded
one Catalyzation
• Pick spells from the lists unlocked by your Path,
Archetype, or Catalyzation.
• Record the base skills awarded by your Class.
• Distribute 5 points between your skills, with no
skill going higher than 3. New skills may be
purchased by spending a single point.
• All characters gain one mastery. This may be
assigned to any skill, but we highly recommend
you select an active skill (Ranged, Melee,
Unarmed, Spellcasting).
• Select any number of perks.
• Select a corresponding number of flaws to bal-
ance your perks. All perks must be balanced by
a flaw.
STEP 4 - SELECT CATALYZATION
STEP 5 - SELECT SPELLS
STEP 6 - ASSIGN SKILL POINTS & MASTERY
STEP 7 - SELECT PERKS & FLAWS
STEP 8 - PURCHASE DEFENSIVES
STEP 9 - CALCULATE HIT POINTS & SPELL POOL
STEP 10 - PURCHASE EQUIPMENT
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
ART BY: TOM EDWARDS
08
• Attributes: +1 Fortitude, +1 Agility
• Racial Abilities: Cast Iron Stomach (immune to
poisons, and suffer no penalties from alcohol)
Drifters are tough little fookers that speak in rapid,
unintelligible gibberish, that has its roots in Irish
Cockney all the way back on ancient Terra. Their
biggest passion in life is crafting beer, but not just any
beer. Drifter beer is famous as a medium for potions,
and can contain anything from healing potions to
counterspells. And yes, it still gets you drunk. Drifters
are much shorter than either humans or Shayans, and
are often underestimated as a result.
Character creation begins by selecting a race. Only
four are presented here, but dozens of races populate
the sector. Some, like the mysterious Eleph, keep to the
fringes and avoid interaction. Others, like the draconic
Krox, are only seen when their invasion fleets darken
the skies of your homeworld.
Below you’ll find the races available to players. Each
provides a bonus to an attribute and / or skill, and note
that this can raise attributes higher than 5.
CHOOSE A RACE
STEP 1:
DRIFTER
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
09
disdain for other civilizations, which is well earned.
Until recently they possessed the most powerful navy
in the sector.
• Attributes: +2 Armor, +1 Fortitude
• Racial Abilities: Breath Weapon
Hatchlings are the offspring of Wyrms who have yet
to undergo their first molting, which occurs around
their centennial. They are bipedal, highly intelligent,
and much longer lived than most races in the sector.
Most hatchlings hail from Virkon and are air aspected.
A few Krox have left their people to wander the
galaxy, but those often hide their ancestry to avoid
persecution.
It’s important to note that at one time the entire
galaxy was ruled by the dragonflights, and that many
remnants of their rule are still out there. All eight
aspects of hatchlings are available for play, and a
character can choose the one they’re most interested in
without needing to worry about fitting in. For example,
the planet Kemet has all eight types of hatchling in
abundance, and there are many other worlds where
this is true.
A hatchling’s breath weapon matches the hatchling’s
aspect, and makes a ranged + agility attack that does
5 damage in a 10 meter cone, resisted by an opponent’s
skepticism. This ability can only be used once per scene
/ hour depending on how closely the gamemaster is
tracking time.
• Attributes: +1 to an attribute of choice, +1 Skep-
ticism.
• Racial Abilities: NA
Humans are the most populous race in the sector,
and have founded many colonies. The largest all
belong to the Ternus Territory, which claims to be a
colony of ancient Terra, though some scholars dispute
the veracity of this claim. Humans are adaptable, and
often straddle the technological and magical worlds.
Human’s skepticism bonus does not count toward
their maximum.
• Attributes: +1 Reason, +1 Appearance, +1 Spell
Pool
• Racial Abilities: Does not age normally
Shayans are increasingly rare in the sector, but still
control a disproportionate amount of the power.
They are super-humanly beautiful, and do not age
past maturity in the same way as humans. They will
maintain their appearance indefinitely, so long as they
are able to regularly ingest magic. Doing so causes
their eyes to glow, and many Shayans do not eat in
public as a result.
Shayans have a larger spell pool than equivalent
races, and are known for their superior intellects. They
are also known for their immense egos, and utter
HUMAN
SHAYAN
HATCHLING
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
ART BY: DENNIS FROHLICH
10
Select one of following basic archetypes.
True Mages gather and apply knowledge, but they
are best known for their mastery of the greater paths
of magic. Only true mages can access their potent
spells.
Dedicates all worship a god, catalyst or demigod, for
which their deity grants them miracles.
Scoundrels facilitate trade and communication,
where trade means theft, and communication means a
void bolt to the back of the head from a hundred
meters away. Their methods are often suspect, but no
Once you’ve selected your race you will need to
choose an Archetype that determines your base skills,
abilities, and hit points. Each archetype has strengths
and weaknesses, and they’re designed to work well
with the other archetypes.
Each archetype contains Paths, which build upon
the selected archetype. Choose one that reflects the
type of character you want to play. For example, all
Warriors (an archetype) get melee at 3, but only the
Path of the War Mage (one of the paths) grants the
spell parry ability. Conversely, only the Path of the
Tech Mage will allow a character to begin play owning
spellarmor.
ARCHETYPES & PATHS
STEP 2:
ARCHETYPES
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
11
Mercenaries compensate for their lack of magic
through superior firepower and technology. They are
all tough, adaptable, and well equipped. Mercs begin
play with a cyberharness that allows the use of
modular implants.
DEDICATE:
• Paladin
• Soulcatcher
SCOUNDREL:
• Spellsniper
• Larcenist
WARRIOR:
• War Mage
• Tech Mage
MERCENARY:
• Captain
• Mage Killer
Warriors are the front-line soldiers and pilots who
represent every power in the sector. They all share a
common toughness and lethality, though their
methods differ.
Select one of the paths under your chosen archetype.
Most of your character’s abilities will be tied directly
to this choice, so choose carefully.
TRUE MAGE:
• Relic Hunter (Archeologist)
• Specialist (Choose from Artificer, Illusionist,
Flame Reader, Eradicator, Summoner, Necro-
mancer, Shaman, Healer)
the mage selects adjacent aspects they may unlock the
corresponding greater path. All True Mages begin play
with 3 spells selected from the aspects or greater paths
that they know. See Magic & the Circle of Eight for details.
All Paths in the true mage archetype share a love of
knowledge. Most students have spent many years in a
classroom, whether that was on a Ternus starship, or at
an Inuran manaforge.
True Mages strive to obtain mastery of a greater path
of magic, which requires them to possess two adjacent
aspects (see the Magic & the Circle of Eight chapter for
details). This allows access to powerful spells that no
other archetype may use. All true mages begin play with
a 2nd catalyzation, which offers a huge advantage. If
• Catalyzations: 2
• Spell Pool: 3
• Hit Points: 10
• Initiative: 0
SKILLS:
• Spellcasting: 3
• History and Lore: 2
• Arcana: 2
PATHS
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
12
Upon graduation all Relic Hunters are imbued with
ritual sorcery designed to aid their endeavors. The
magic allows them to translate any language, either
written or verbal, instantly as if it were their native
tongue.
Relic Hunters are much more proficient at utilizing
magical equipment than their fellow mages. They gain
an edge whenever casting a spell or making an attack
through a device such as a spellstaff, spellpistol, or
spellrifle.
Every nation in the sector relies on either magic or
technology to maintain their strength. That strength
is built and maintained by Artificers, the magical
engineers that construct everything from spellrifles
to mecha. Artificers are trained to understand all
magical devices and all technology. Many excel at
melding the two together, and can create a variety of
bombs, weaponry, and armor.
Mages of all types absolutely love Artificers, and
have been known to go as far as polishing their tools
in an attempt to curry favor. It pays to be friends with
someone who can build you a suit of spellarmor, or
enchant your spellblade with a flaming aura.
The Artificer receives the artificing skill as a
Mastery.
Archeologists were once considered stuffy academics
right up until humanity discovered magic. It quickly
became apparent that dozens of galactic civilizations
spanning millions of years have criss-crossed our
sector of the galaxy. Understanding those civilizations
allows Relic Hunters, the modern archeologist, to
harness powerful artifacts, and to discover new Cata-
lysts. Their primary objective is finding and recovering
ancient magics and technologies, whether for their
own profit or to benefit their patron university.
Universities function much like sports teams, and
competition between them is fierce. The term arche-
ologist has fallen out of favor, and been replaced by
the much more glamorous Relic Hunter. Freelance
Relic Hunters are universally looked down upon… until
they make a big score. Then universities clamor to
recruit them, but of course ask a generous ‘donation’
from their recent haul.
Unlike many paths, Relic Hunters do not require any
specific aspect or path of magic, and can specialize as
they see fit. They are generalists, and do not begin play
with a greater path. They may be purchased with xp.
Relic Hunters receive History & Lore, Perception, and
Arcana as masteries making them the finest scholars
in the sector.
Relic Hunters gain Perception at 3.
PATH OF THE RELIC HUNTER
MASTERIES:
EXTRA SKILLS:
DECIPHER:
TOMB ROBBER:
MASTERIES:
PATH OF THE ARTIFICER
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
13
Illusionists combine air and dream into fantastic
illusions that fool the senses of their enemies. Because
their powers allow them to alter their appearance,
charm the weak-willed, and commit larceny most
governments and institutions not only distrust illusion-
ists, but have strict laws about how and when they can
use their magic.
Illusionists receive Stealth as a mastery.
Illusionists gain Stealth at 3.
Illusionists are so gifted they may sustain one illu-
sion without pledging the necessary spell pool, and
without concentration.
Flame Readers combine fire and dream to peer into
the past, the future, and to distant locales. Nothing
is hidden from a skilled Flame Reader, and they are
often dispatched by various governments to hunt down
criminals, or to retrieve lost objects. Flame Readers
are amazing investigators, and are often feared by
the lawless.
Artificers gain Artificing at 3.
An artificer may spend eight hours to erect an impro-
vised workshop, which can be used to construct weap-
ons, armor, or other objects. This workshop requires a
mystically imbued focus, which all artificers are
presented with upon graduation. This focus links to an
extra-dimensional void pocket where everything from
machining tools to a 3D printer are stored.
The workshop provides no bonus to craft checks, but
reduces the time needed to construct an object by 20%.
Most artificers spend a few hours each day in their
workshop tinkering, and are always turning out useful
inventions.
Artificers are encouraged to familiarize themselves
with the magic item creation rules.
An artificer may invest a point from their spell pool
into an object to improve the quality. This ability
requires eight hours of sustained magical ritual, and
the use of a workshop. The resulting object gains
bonuses based on the chart below. These bonuses are
permanent, until the mage decides to reclaim the
magic, which requires another eight-hour ritual.
If the mage is killed before this happens, then the
enchantment is permanent. An artificer may invest a
number of spell pool into an object equal to their
magic. The bonuses stack.
EXTRA SKILLS:
IMPROVISED WORKSHOP:
INVEST MAGIC:
PATH OF THE ILLUSIONIST
MASTERIES:
EXTRA SKILLS:
SUSTAIN ILLUSION:
PATH OF THE FLAME READER
• Armor: +1 armor
• Weapon: +1 accuracy or +1 damage
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
14
The Eradicator reduces the cost of all destruction,
fire, and void spells by 1.
Summoners are a rare breed, and are often con-
fused with necromancers or binders. Summoners are
much, much different, however. Where a necromancer
will bind a spirit into a corpse a summoner will open a
fissure to the umbral depths and draw forth any
creature with which they have a pact.
Summoners receive Spellcasting and Negotiation as
masteries.
Summoners gain Negotiation at 3.
The Summoner has a pact with a powerful creature
that will serve and defend them when called upon.
The Summoner may call their defender as a standard
action, and their defender will follow any order given.
This defender is typically part of a tribe, which has
been either enslaved or has an alliance with a coven
of summoners. When the defender is inevitably killed
a new one will be assigned to fulfill the pact, and the
summoner can always call a defender to protect
them. Common defenders include tech demons, ifrit,
and many types of undead. The defender’s magnitude
may not exceed the Summoner’s magic.
Flame Readers receive Perception and Flame Read-
ing as masteries.
Flame Readers gain Perception and Flame Reading
at 3.
Flame readers gain edge whenever attempting to
pierce an illusion, and automatically attempt to see
through illusions even if unaware it exists. Further, the
flame reader is always aware when they are being
lied to.
Eradicators, sometimes called Battle Mages, excel
at killing opponents en masse. They wield fire and
void, two of the most feared aspects, and combine them
into the greater path of destruction.
Eradicators are the only mages capable of casting
disintegrate, one of the deadliest and most feared
spells in the sector since it cannot be countered.
Eradicators receive Spellcasting and Ranged as
masteries.
Eradicators gain Ranged at 3.
MASTERIES:
EXTRA SKILLS:
PIERCE ALL VEILS:
PATH OF THE ERADICATOR
MASTERIES:
EXTRA SKILLS:
EFFICIENT KILLER:
PATH OF THE SUMMONER
MASTERIES:
EXTRA SKILLS:
PACT OF THE DEFENDER:
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
15
The Necromancers gain Negotiation at 3.
All Necromancers possess an animus, a shard of
their own soul, that they may place into a receptacle.
That receptacle can be a body they have constructed,
or a corpse they are animating. The body requires no
preparation, and the necromancer can will their
animus to animate a new body, or to return, as a
standard action.
The animated body has a magnitude equal to the
necromancer’s magic.
When not animating a body the animus lives in the
necromancer’s shadow, and is visible with a perception
check. The animus is a reflection of the necromancer’s
soul, and players are encouraged to be creative.
Shamans use the greater path of protection to ward
themselves and their allies. They share many beliefs
and powers with their necromancer cousins, but where
binders enslave, shamans enhance and protect. Their
bonds with beasts and men are made willingly, though
shamans sometimes find themselves called upon to
force their wills on others.
A shaman’s appearance may vary wildly from cul-
ture to culture, but all share a reverence for nature, as
symbolized by their connection to water. They also
share a connection to their ancestors, symbolized by
their use of Spirit. Together those two aspects form the
The Summoner may make a pact with any willing
creature. That creature may now be summoned as a
standard action. The details of this pact are between
the summoner and the creature making the pact, but
most creatures will only agree if they owe a life debt,
or greatly fear the summoner.
One would think that Necromancers would be
mistrusted and feared, and yet they are far more
favorably viewed than any other binder. Most binders
steal the will of others. They bind them, and force
them to heinous acts. They force themselves on others,
ruining lives, and taking what they want.
Necromancers are known for two things. Firstly, they
serve as conduits to the dead. Need to ask grandma
where she buried that ring? You’re going to need a
necro.
The second thing is the obvious thing. Necromancers
bind souls into the corpses of the dead, and then
animate them. Note that the soul they are binding
does not need to be the original, and almost never is.
Many cultures find this practice distasteful, and it is
often outlawed in public. Clever Necromancers keep
their minions out of sight, and claim to be a simple
Deathspeaker, who can communicate with their loved
ones beyond the veil.
Necromancers receive Spellcasting and Negotiation
as masteries.
MAKE PACT:
PATH OF THE NECROMANCER
MASTERIES:
EXTRA SKILLS:
ANIMUS:
PATH OF THE SHAMAN
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
16
to dispel curses, bindings and other hostile magics.
Healers are rarely pacifists, however, and most healers
are perfectly capable of defending themselves.
Healers are a rarity in the sector, and are obviously in
high demand. Most healers choose to become doctors
on busy stations, though some of the more curious
occasionally become adventurers, if only to acquire
more magic.
greater path of protection, a powerful and often un-
derestimated branch of study.
Shamans receive Spellcasting and Arcana as mas-
teries.
Shamans gain Arcana at 3.
A Shaman may sustain a ward without pledging pool,
and without concentration. All the ward requires is the
initial casting.
A Shaman gains edge on all spellcasting checks
made to create a ward, or to cast another defensive
magic.
The galaxy is full of death and destruction, but a
Healer does what they can to mitigate such things. They
use their command of life and water to heal allies, and
MASTERIES:
EXTRA SKILLS:
SUSTAIN WARD:
EMPOWER WARDS:
PATH OF THE HEALER
Healers receive Spellcasting and Medicine as
masteries.
Healers gain Medicine at 3.
Healers always have edge when casting a healing or
restorative spell.
Healers reduce the cost of all healing spells by 1 to
a minimum of zero.
MASTERIES:
EXTRA SKILLS:
EMPOWERED HEALING:
COMPASSIONATE HEALER:
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
17
The War Mage may choose either ranged or melee
to become a Mastery. They also gain athletics as a
mastery.
When casting a spell through any spellweapon the
spell is resolved against the target’s brace or skepti-
cism, whichever is lower. Add the mage’s magic rating
when resolving damage.
Once per round a War Mage may attempt to parry
a spell that directly targets them. They make a free
melee + agility test with either a spellshield or spell-
blade to parry a spell. Each success is subtracted from
their opponent’s roll. If their enemy’s successes are
reduced to zero, then the spell is parried. However, if
the war mage rolls enough extra success to beat the
target’s skepticism, then the spell is reflected back at
the caster.
Those who follow the Warrior archetype generally
value martial and tactical prowess over all else. Their
job is to make enemies dead, while avoiding the same
fate. How that is accomplished varies from Path to
Path, but you can be certain that if you are facing a
warrior they are playing for keeps.
War Mages channel magic directly through their
bodies, and may create limited magical effects to
supplement their impressive combat abilities. They are
the front-line heroes that stiffen the ranks of tech
mages, and are what many tech mages aspire to
become.
War Mages begin play with a spellblade or spell-
rifle, but no additional equipment, and very limited
resources. This represents their years studying in a
kamiza, where they are taught to forgo physical
possessions.
• Catalyzations: 1
• Spell Pool: 2
• Hit Points: 20
• Initiative: 3
SKILLS:
• Athletics: 2
• Melee or Ranged: 3
• Perception: 2
PATH OF THE WAR MAGE
MASTERIES:
DEVASTATING STRIKE:
SPELL RIPOSTE:
INNATE SPELLS:
A War Mage may channel their magic directly
through their bodies instead of hard casting. Note that
unless a character has spellcasting, or innate spells,
then they cannot cast without the aid of a spellwea-
pon or similar aid.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
18
Almost every god, living or dead, has a religion of
significant size. These religions require soldiers and
priests to defend their god, and to acquire more magic
if their god is dead and they wish to resurrect them.
All dedicates make a covenant with their god, which
funnels worship to the deity, but also allows the deity
to reward them with miracles. Nearly every religion
trains their followers in both magic and more martial
pursuits.
PATH OF THE TECH MAGE
Tech Mages combine technology and magic with
devastating effectiveness. They are generally tougher
than War Mages, and if they are well equipped can pack
every bit as much offense to boot. Their only downside
is their reliance on technology, which is required for
them to manifest their spells.
Tech Mages begin play with their choice of a Mark V
spellrifle, and a set of standard Mark V spellarmor. See
the equipment chapter for details.
MASTERIES:
The Tech Mage may choose either Ranged or Melee
as a mastery.
COME GET SOME:
Tech Mages are tough, to a fault. Some of this repu-
tation comes from their spellarmor, which makes them
nearly unkillable by most foes. The rest of it comes
from this ability. All Tech Mages gain +1 Brace, Dodge,
& Skepticism. This bonus can raise their defense over
the normal caps.
EFFICIENT CASTER:
Tech Mages may reduce the cost of a spell by 1, down
to a minimum of zero. This makes a tech mage with
even a single remaining spell point a royal pain in the
ass as they can take cover and deliver bolt after bolt.
• Catalyzations: 1
• Spell Pool: 2
• Hit Points: 15
• Initiative: 2
SKILLS:
• Ranged or Melee: 3
• Religion: 2
• Athletics: 2
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
19
A paladin may select a miracle from the list in the
Gods & Divinity chapter. A player may purchase addi-
tional miracles by spending experience.
Paladins are highly resistant to magic, and gain 5
points of magic resistance. In addition, an enemy mage
may never possess an edge when casting against them.
Paladins gain Piloting at 2 and Navigation at 2.
Soulcatchers are revered by their own cultures, but
despised by others.
They are often high priests of their (usually dead)
god’s religion. Their mission is simple. Go out into the
sector and secure magic, then bring it back and offer it
to their god in an effort to resurrect them. This theft
hardly endears them to other magical powers, though
Ternus’s general hatred of the supernatural means that
they tolerate this practice more than most. They see
it as cleaning up the galaxy.
When a Soulcatcher dies, their body is returned
home, and all the magic they’ve accumulated is gifted
to their deity. Soulcatchers excel at finding magic,
and are given miracles by their god that support this
ability.
Paladins are the holy warriors of their respective
deities. It is their job to spread the faith, to defend their
god’s interests, and to ensure that their worshipers
are both protected and encouraged to continue
worshiping.
Paladins are fearless, implacable foes, resistant to
magic and heavily armored against physical attacks.
Most paladins are trained in a variety of weapons and
magics, and are often assigned to protect a soulcatcher
as they pursue their missions.
Paladins begin play with a suit of Inuran Mark III
Spellarmor, and either a spellrifle or spellblade of
GM’s choice.
Paladins gain Religion, and either Ranged or Melee
as a mastery.
A Paladin gains a Covenant with the deity or religion
of their choice. They may select from any available,
or work with the game master to create a custom
Covenant.
Prior to selecting a Covenant all Paladins are
encouraged to read the available miracles, as the
choice they make will determine which miracles are
available to them.
PATH OF THE PALADIN
MASTERIES:
COVENANT:
MIRACLES:
HEARTY:
EXTRA SKILLS:
PATH OF THE SOULCATCHER
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
20
Claiming a soul allows the potential for reincarna-
tion, or even resurrection if a powerful life mage is
involved. Claiming magic allows the character to
consume the power of a dying soul, which grants them
a permanent point of spell pool.
However, breaking the phylactery frees the soul and
removes the spell pool. A Soulcatcher may gain no more
than twice their willpower in spellpool, and the closer
they get to their limit the greater the longing to return
home.
A soulcatcher may spend an action to unleash a
vengeful soul from a phylactery. This is accomplished
by crushing the vial, and lasts a number of rounds equal
to the number of successes on a magic + religion roll.
When a soul is harvested its power level is deter-
mined by the creature killed. This is treated as a spirit
version of whatever the soul was in life, and gains
the vulnerable to life flaw.
Once per day a Soulcatcher may use any Miracle,
even if they’ve already exhausted the uses for that day.
Soulcatchers gain Perception at 2.
Soulcatchers gain Religion and Perception as mas-
teries.
A Soulcatcher gains a covenant with the deity or
religion of their choice. They may select from any avail-
able, or work with the game master to create a custom
Covenant.
Prior to selecting a Covenant all Soulcatchers are
encouraged to read the available miracles, as the
choice they make will determine which miracles are
available to them.
A Soulcatcher may select two miracles from the list
in the Miracles & Covenants chapter. A player may pur-
chase additional miracles by spending experience.
If the Soulcatcher is within 30 meters of a magically
active creature at the time of its death, then they may
spend their next action to capture that being’s magical
energy or soul (not both). A soulcatcher must possess a
phylactery to store the soul, but are usually provided an
ample supply by their religion as this is their primary
function.
MASTERIES:
COVENANT:
MIRACLES:
CLAIM SOUL:
UNLEASH SOUL:
DEEP FAITH:
EXTRA SKILLS:
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
21
Mage Killers are cybernetically enhanced to
increase their speed, strength, and stealth, with the
goal of eliminating mages before they are even aware
of the Mage Killer’s presence. Mage Killers are tough,
but despite their name are somewhat vulnerable to
magic, which is why it is so important to get the drop
on their foes.
The Mage Killer gains both melee and ranged as
masteries.
The Mage Killer gains Stealth 3.
If the target is unaware of the Mage Killer, then the
Mage Killer gains edge on all attacks for that round.
The Mage Killer begins play with an array of cyber-
ware. They may choose two of the following:
• Stealth Generator: Creates a field around the
character that bends light and muffles sound. The
character gains edge on all stealth tests while the
field is active.
Not everyone is blessed with magic. In fact, most
people possess no magic of any kind. Those people
need to get by on their wits, which isn’t enough. Fortu-
nately, Mercenaries cheat with a combination of state
of the art cyberware, and the deadliest weapons they
can get their hands on. Mercenaries are prepared for
anything, and almost always have the right tool for
any job.
All Mercenaries possess a cybernetic harness, which
is wired directly into their nervous system. This allows
them to add various modules and cybernetic enhance-
ments, some of which can be customized mission to
mission.
Mages have murdered billions, and humanity isn’t
taking it lying down. Ternus commissioned a special
unit designed specifically around hunting and elimi-
nating enemy casters on the battlefield, and over the
past two decades the program has expanded to the
populace at large.
• Catalyzations: 0
• Spell Pool: 0
• Hit Points: 20
• Initiative: 3
SKILLS:
• Melee: 3
• Ranged: 3
• Athletics: 3
• Perception: 2
PATH OF THE MAGE KILLER
MASTERIES:
EXTRA SKILLS:
ASSASSINATE:
ARSENAL:
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
22
also wear brown coats for some reason. Their vessels
require constant upkeep, fuel (unless they are lucky
enough to possess a spelldrive and a mage), and repair
if they are getting into combat.
Fortunately, captains are adept pilots, skilled
negotiators, and shrewd merchants.
• Magic Inhibitor: The character’s skeleton is
reinforced with an alloy that inhibits magic. This
grants the character an unusually high resistance to
magic, but also applies to magical healing. Increase
the threshold of all spells targeting them by 2.
• Cyber-senses: The character’s eyes and eardrums
have been replaced with cybernetic systems. They
gain edge on all perception checks, and cannot be
caught unaware by attackers.
• Augmented Reflexes I: The character gains +1
agility, and +1 dodge. These bonuses may exceed
racial maximum.
• Augmented Strength I: The character gains +1
strength, and +1 athletics. These bonuses may exceed
racial maximum.
• Reinforced Skeleton I: The character gains +1
fortitude, and + 1 brace. These bonuses may exceed
racial maximum.
Mage killers begin play with a Mark VII Ternus
Assault Rifle, 6 magazines of explosive rounds, 4 frag
grenades, a set of environmental body armor, and a set
of cybernetic spurs that do 4 base damage and have
1 armor penetration.
EQUIPMENT:
PATH OF THE CAPTAIN
Captains are so named because each possesses a
vessel that they are the captain of. Most Captains are
dead broke, and always looking for their next job. Most
The Captain gains Piloting and Negotiation as
masteries.
MASTERIES:
The Captain gains Piloting and Negotiation at 3.
EXTRA SKILLS:
All Captains gain a Mark III fighter, corvette, or
freighter of their choice. This belongs to them free and
clear, with no credits owed to any bank. Such vessels
are extraordinarily rare, and are worth several million
credits. They are genetically bonded to their owners,
and nearly impossible to steal.
PROOF OF TITLE:
Any time a captain reaches a new port or world they
may make an intuition check. One or more successes
indicates that they know someone on that world with
who they’ve had a good working relationship in the
past.
CONTACTS:
Captains begin play with a Harry’s Pump Action
Shotgun Mk V, 4 magazines of explosive rounds, and a
set of NTM Cavalier Light body armor.
EQUIPMENT:
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
23
Scoundrels are a catch-all for the assassins, thieves,
and con men that call the sector home. Such characters
may have looser morals, but are often good hearted,
and just as necessary as their more law abiding breth-
ren. Or so they’ll tell you anyway.
• Catalyzations: 1
• Spell Pool: 3
• Hit Points: 12
• Initiative: 3
SKILLS:
• Stealth: 3
• Ranged: 2
• Perception: 2
Larcenists are the grease in the wheels that keeps
the sector turning. If the party needs to meet with a
buyer, the Larcenist is the gal that does the talking. If
they’re buying equipment, he’s the one cutting the
deal. Larcenists are master negotiators, with a variety
of useful skills. They are often the leader of their
respective groups, though more than one prefers
avoiding such responsibility.
Larcenists begin play with a suit of environmental
armor, and a Mark V spellpistol. They gain an addi-
tional 1,200 credits, which they can choose to spend
on armor and weapons, or keep liquid.
PATH OF THE LARCENIST
The Larcenist gains Negotiation, Stealth, and
Larceny as masteries.
MASTERIES:
EXTRA SKILLS:
Larcenists gain Negotiation at 3 and Larceny at 3.
DISARM DEVICE:
A Larcenist channels their latent magical energies to
open locks, and to disarm traps or other devices. The
larcenist gains an edge (2 success) whenever they
attempt one of these activities and they can magically
improvise tools to do it.
AURA OF DISRUPTION:
Larcenists have a latent aura that makes it difficult
to record their likenesses. Cameras mysteriously short
out. Scry spells target the wrong area, a few meters
behind the character. Something will always happen
to ensure their image is not recorded.
SILVER TONGUE:
Larcenists see bullshitting as a survival skill. They
always have edge when making Negotiation checks,
and gain an extra die when using Negotiation to try
to con or bluff.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
24
PATH OF THE SPELLSNIPER
Spellsnipers are both rare and unique. They lack the
raw combat prowess of a War Mage, and aren’t nearly as
well armed as Tech Mages. They make up for it in their
niche. Spellsnipers can deliver spells at range to kill,
charm, or incapacitate. Snipers with life magic make
excellent long-range healers.
The Spellsniper gains Ranged and Stealth as mas-
teries.
MASTERIES:
EXTRA SKILLS:
Spellsnipers gain Ranged at 3 and Athletics at 3.
SNIPE:
If the target is unaware of the Spellsniper’s location,
then the sniper gains an edge (2 extra successes to each
attack). This attack is made with +2 accuracy. The
attack, whether physical or magical, hits something
vital and does 2 additional damage. If it does multiple
types, then all are increased.
Note that this applies to melee attacks, so long as
the target is unaware.
ONE WITH SHADOW:
Thanks to their extensive training Spellsnipers are
both silent and nearly invisible. They gain edge when-
ever making a stealth check, and may make a stealth
check during combat if they break line of sight with
their attackers.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
DETERMINE ATTRIBUTES
STEP 3:
ART BY: TOM EDWARDS
25
Once you’ve selected a race, and archetype, and a
path, you need to assign attributes. Attributes repre-
sent a character’s raw abilities, and are used in just
about every other part of the game. War Mages rely
on strength, fortitude, and agility. True Mages rely on
will and their choice of charisma, appearance, reason,
or intuition. Tech Mages tend to favor agility and
fortitude.
Attributes scale from 1 to 5 with 5 being normal
racial maximum. Note that if your race gives you a
bonus, this raises the maximum for that attribute as
well.
All attributes begin at 2, and a character has five
points to spend. If you harass your GM this may be
increased to seven, depending on the power level
they’re seeking. Sorry, GMs
• Reason
• Intuition
• Strength
• Will
• Agility
• Appearance
• Charisma
• Fortitude
ATTRIBUTE RANKS
ATTRIBUTE LIST
1 - TERRIBLE
2 - AVERAGE
3 - GIFTED
4 - PRODIGY
5 - PEAK HUMAN
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
26
Characters with a high reason can quickly and easi-
ly solve problems and perform calculations.
AGILITY:
Agility represents both reflexes and manual dex-
terity, and is used for the dodge defense, for ranged
attacks, and to avoid some area-of-effect attacks.
Agility is important to a number of skills, including
stealth and athletics.
APPEARANCE:
Appearance represents a character’s overall attrac-
tiveness. Certain Paths argue that beauty is divinity,
and revere it when found. For this reason some mages
use appearance to express their magic. Shockingly,
they tend to be quite vain.
CHARISMA:
Charisma represents a mixture of your character’s
force of personality and overall charm. Most social
skills are directly tied to charisma, plus you get to be
popular.
FORTITUDE:
Fortitude represents a character’s physical endur-
ance, and forms the basis of the Brace defense. Your
fortitude also helps to determine your character’s hit
points. All characters get Fortitude * 5 hit points in
addition to what their archetype grants.
REASON:
A character’s reason represents their raw intelli-
gence and learning skills. The higher the reason, the
faster and easier the character can solve problems.
Intuition represents a character’s emotional intelli-
gence, instincts, and their ability to read social situa-
tions. Characters with a high intuition quickly grasp
new concepts and adapt to new situations.
INTUITION:
A character’s strength represents raw muscular
ability. How much can you lift, bro? Strength factors
directly into melee damage, and determines what
class of armor a character may safely use.
STRENGTH:
A character’s will represents their mental discipline.
Stoic monks have a high will. Shifty gamblers who
love to drink have a low will. Will forms your base
Skepticism defense, which is critical against all direct
magical attacks. Will also determines part of your
base spell pool. All characters gain willpower *3 in
addition to other sources.
WILL:
Magic gets an asterisk because it is a derived att-
ribute. Your magic is equal to the number of catalysts
your character has been to. For most characters that’s
going to be 1, though True Mages begin play with 2.
When this number rises higher than 5 your character
will be considered a demigod. For more details see
the Miracles & Covenants chapter.
*MAGIC:
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
SELECT CATALYZATION
STEP 4:
ART BY: TOM EDWARDS
27
most potent Catalyzation you can get.
NOTE: You select ONE Catalyzation from the list
below. If you pick Life Magic, for example, you may not
also purchase Touch of Shaya.
Only True Mages select 2, and they will choose 2
types of magic.
Every mage possesses powerful eldritch magic, and
this magic ultimately originates from a god. The act of
gaining power from a god create a Catalyzation in the
mage, assuming they survive the process.
Characters in The Magitech Chronicles gain
a number of Catalyzations from their archetype. These
represent either Catalysts that the character has been
to, or are the result of a powerful bloodline, meaning
that their parents or grandparents had been to a potent
Catalyst. Your GM may either allow you to pick from
the following list, or you may choose to simply have
inherited the Catalyzations from a parent, and could
be ignorant as to the true source.
These abilities will determine which spells you have
access to, so choose carefully! Feel free to peruse the
spells chapter before making your final selections. In
most cases, simply taking your aspect’s magic is the
LIFE
LIFE MAGIC:
Grants access to life spells, 3 spell pool, and 3 life
resistance. Also adds the Light Bolt spell to the mage’s
lexicon.
TOUCH OF SHAYA:
The mage touches a target and heals their wounds.
They may spend as many points from their spell pool
as they wish, and the target heals for the amount
spent. Also grants 3 spell pool and 3 life resistance.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
28
some way to pierce illusions. Invisible targets gain edge
on stealth checks involving sight. The invisibility lasts
until cancelled, or until the mage next sleeps.
VANITY OF SHAYA:
The mage gains +1 appearance. They also gain 3
spell pool, and 3 life resistance.
AIR
AIR MAGIC:
Grants access to air spells, 3 spell pool, and 3 air
resistance. Also adds the Lightning Bolt spell to the
mage’s lexicon.
ASCEND TO THE DRAGONFLIGHT:
The mage gains the ability to fly at will. They gain
a fly speed of 45 kph, and many maneuver using
athletics + agility.
GRACE OF VIRKONNA:
The mage gains a permanent +1 agility. They also
gain 3 spell pool, and 3 air resistance.
DREAM
DREAM MAGIC:
Grants access to dream spells, 3 spell pool, and 3
dream resistance. Also adds the Dream Bolt spell to
the mage’s lexicon.
VANISH:
Once per day a mage may spend an action to disap-
pear from sight. They are considered invisible, and
cannot be directly targeted unless the perceiver has
THE VOICE OF SHI:
The mage gains a permanent +1 to charisma. They
also gain 3 spell pool and 3 dream resistance.
FIRE
FIRE MAGIC:
Grants access to fire spells, 3 spell pool, and 3 fire
resistance. Also adds the Fire Bolt spell to the mage’s
lexicon.
PIERCE ALL VEILS:
Once per day the mage may sear their vision with the
flames of the unspoken mother. They gain the ability to
pierce all illusions, and can see invisible targets. This
lasts until cancelled, or until the sleep. For the duration
the mage’s eyes glow with endless flame.
STRENGTH OF VAN:
The mage gains a +1 to strength. They also gain
3 spell pool and 3 fire resistance.
VOID
VOID MAGIC:
Grants access to void spells, 3 spell pool, and 3 void
resistance. Also adds the Void Bolt spell to the mage’s
lexicon.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
29
UMBRAL JAUNT:
Thrice per day a mage may spend an action slip
through the umbral depths to arrive at a new location
within 30 meters.
XAL’S PIERCING INTELLECT:
The mage gains a +1 reason. They also gain 3 spell
pool and 3 void resistance.
EARTH
EARTH MAGIC:
Grants access to earth spells, 3 spell pool, and 3 earth
resistance. Also adds the Acid Bolt spell to the mage’s
lexicon.
THE RESOLVE OF TRAKALON:
The mage gains a +1 fort. They also gain 3 spell pool
and 3 earth resistance.
GIFT OF OSMIUM:
The mage’s skin becomes as hard as metal, granting
3 armor and 3 earth resistance.
SPIRIT
SPIRIT MAGIC:
Grants access to spirit spells, 3 spell pool, and
3 spirit resistance. Also adds the Spirit Bolt spell
to the mage’s lexicon.
SIMULACRUM:
Once per day the mage may spend an action to
create an incorporeal double in their exact location,
while they are transported to the spirit world. They
may move, drink potions, or take any other action that
does not interact with the mortal world.
The mage returns to our realm at the end of the 3rd
round after being cast. The mage may choose to return
at any time before this. A single attack will destroy the
simulacrum, but it will not reveal the mage’s presence
in the spirit world.
RESOLVE OF KROX:
The mage gains a +1 will. They also gain 3 spell pool
and 3 spirit resistance.
WATER
WATER MAGIC:
Grants access to water spells, 3 spell pool, and
3 water resistance. Also adds the Frost Bolt spell to
the mage’s lexicon.
MARID’S PROTECTION:
The mage gains 5 magic resistance.
MARID’S INTUITION:
The mage gains +1 intuition. They also gain 3 spell
pool and 3 water resistance.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
RECORD SPELLS
STEP 5:
ART BY: TAKASHI TAN
30
Different mages access magic differently. Some
mages are coldly analytical, and rely on their reason to
harness magic. Others are more intuitive, or use their
empathy for magic itself to control it, which manifests
through charisma. Still others rely on the the link
between divinity and beauty to drive their magic.
Select one of the following as your character’s magi-
cal expression:
From a practical standpoint, do you want to be
charismatic, beautiful, intuitive, or logical? Your spell-
casting will rely on this attribute, and once chosen this
cannot be changed. Record your expression on your
character sheet, and then move on to picking spells.
• Intuition
• Reason
• Charisma
• Appearance
DETERMINING SPELLS:
If your character selected any form of magic during
character creation, then you have access to spells. The
full list of spells is contained in the Magic & The Circle of
Eight chapter, but the basic options are outlined here.
BOLT SPELLS
All aspects give the character the ability to fire a bolt
spell. Each bolt varies slightly based on the aspect
used, but all exist to deliver damage.
Bolt spells can be modified to do different things,
but this usually requires more spell pool. See the chart
below. Note that a mage can only pay a cost equal to
or lower than their magic attribute.
If they have the available pool, they convert the
spell. For example, changing a fire bolt to a fireball
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
31
fire bolt and void bolt to your character sheet. The
specifics of these spells are found in the spells chapter.
Next, add Manifest X where X is the aspect you have.
All mages have the ability to manifest their aspect. Void
mages can deepen shadow. Fire mages can manifest a
flame. Check the spells & spellcasting chapter to find
yours.
If your archetype or path awards additional spells
(like True Mage), then go to the spells chapter and
select the relevant spells from the appropriate spell
lists. If you have fire and void, then you may select
spells from those lists.
requires 2 additional spell pool, for a total of 3. Casting
this spell requires a mage to have been to 3 Catalysts,
and no starting character meets that requirement.
True Mages could cast a 15-foot cone, because they
have 2 Catalyzations.
MODIFIER AND COST:
• 3 square / hex cone (1)
• 4 square / hex radius (2)
Add the bolt spell for each aspect your character has.
For example, if you have fire and void, then you will add
RECORD SPELLS
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
ASSIGN SKILL POINTS & MASTERY
STEP 6:
ART BY: TOM EDWARDS
32
A character’s skills represent their accumulated
knowledge and training, and are used whenever a
character must perform a task covered under one of
the skills. Each archetype and path provide certain
skills, but characters may select any skill, provided they
have the skill points to purchase it.
A character begins play with 5 skill points, and no
skill begins higher than 3.
When performing a skill check a character will roll a
number of d6s equal to their skill rating plus the
associated attribute. Each die with a result of 5 or
greater counts as a success, and if the total number of
successes equals the difficulty of the task, then it is
a success.
MASTERIES:
Certain paths or archetypes grant masteries. When
rolling a mastery, each die with a result of 4 or greater
counts as a success.
All characters begin play with one mastery, which
may be spent on any skill.
SKILL RANKS:
1 - UNTRAINED
2 - BASIC
TRAINING
3 - SKILLED
PROFESSIONAL
4 - VETERAN
5 - MASTER
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
33
ACTIVE SKILLS:
• Ranged
• Melee
• Unarmed
• Spellcasting
TECHNICAL SKILLS:
• Warfare
• Artificing
• Negotiation
• Larceny
• Religion
• Investigation
• Hacking
• Linguistics
• Performance
• Crafting
• Stealth
• Engineering
• Piloting
• Gunnery
• Athletics
• Perception
• Arcana
• History & Lore
• Flame Reading
• First Aid
• Navigation
SKILL DESCRIPTIONS
ACTIVE SKILLS:
• Ranged
Attribute: Agility
Covers the use of all conventional pistols, spellpistols,
rifles, and spellrifles.
• Melee
Attribute: Strength
Covers the use of all conventional melee weapons,
including swords, axes, maces, staves, daggers, and
anything else you can think of.
• Spellcasting
Attribute: VARIES (See character’s expression)
Allows the casting of spells. Does not apply to spells
cast through a spellrifle, spellship, etc.
• Unarmed
Attribute: Strength
Allows the character to fight barehanded / unarmed.
TECHNICAL SKILLS:
• Engineering
Attribute: Reason
Allows a character to operate, troubleshoot, and design
various types of technology.
• Piloting
Attribute: Agility
Allows the user to pilot spellships and spellfighters.
Conventional vessels also require Gunnery and Engi-
neering to operate at peak efficiency.
• Gunnery
Attribute: Agility
Allows the user to control weaponry on vehicles and
ships. If they are a mage this includes spellcannons.
• Athletics
Attribute: Fortitude, Strength, or Agility
Athletics governs running, climbing, extended physical
activity, acrobatics, sports, or anything else a character
needs to do that is physical in nature and not covered
by another skill.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
34
• Perception
Attribute: Intuition
Represents a character’s awareness of their surround-
ings. Perception checks can be requested by the GM, or
can sometimes be initiated by a player if they’re search-
ing a specific room for a hidden safe, for example.
• Arcana
Attribute: Reason
Arcana represents a character's knowledge of magic,
magical spells, enchantments, eldimagi, and the gods
themselves from a magical sense. Arcana rolls are of-
ten called for whenever a character is researching or
encountering a magical phenomena or being for the
first time.
• History & Lore
Attribute: Reason
History & Lore covers history and esoteric scientific or
historical trivia.
• Flame Reading
Attribute: Charisma
Flame reading is a form of Divination, and requires fire
magic to use in a basic form, and both fire and dream for
its advanced form. Using this ability allows the mage a
glimpse of the past, present, or a possible future. The
more successes, the more accurate and clear the vision.
• First Aid
Attribute: Reason
First aid allows the treatment of basic field wounds,
infections, and simple diseases.
• Navigation
Attribute: Will
Navigation is used in both conventional and magical
vessels, and can be called for whenever a vessel is sail-
ing the Umbral Depths or normal space.
• Religion
Attribute: Intuition
Religion teaches the prayers, history, and rituals neces-
sary to commune with one's deity, as well as about other
religions. Religion rolls are often required for miracles.
• Investigation
Attribute: Reason or Intuition
Investigation allows characters to piece together clues
into patterns, and is generally rolled when trying to
solve a mystery, or interrogate a victim.
• Negotiation
Attribute: Charisma
Allows the character to make deals, come to agree-
ments, and settle disputes. Rolling well will not per-
suade another PC, but does represent the strength of
their oration / arguments. When trying to decide on a
price each success beyond the DT (the opponent's nego-
tiate check) reduces the price by 5%.
Negotiation is a broad social skill, and will also the user
to con, charm, bluff, or otherwise deceive someone. In
these instances use the target's will as a DT.
• Larceny
Attribute: Agility
Larceny is a pretty word for theft. This ability can be
used to pick pockets, hack safes, or to forge documents.
• Hacking
Attribute: Reason
The character is far more proficient with computers
than the average person. Hacking can be used to infil-
trate, modify, and control computer systems. Find a
file might require a hacking DT 2 check, while taking
control of a turret might require DT 3, and infiltrating
a highly secure server might require a 4 or even a 5.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
35
• Linguistics
Attribute: Reason
The character is proficient in two or more languages.
Purchasing the skill prior to character creation grants
one language per point. Afterwards the character may
make a linguistics check DT 2 to learn a new language
over a period of 2 weeks.
Deciphering a language the character does not know
requires reference material, and can be accomplished
with a DT 4 linguistics check. Each week in study reduces
the DT by 1.
• Performance
Attribute: Charisma, Reason, Intuition, Strength or
Agility
Performance is perhaps the broadest skill as it gov-
erns any type of performance. Oration, dance, solving
a mathematical proof before a crowd, stand up comedy,
shooting an apple off a tree from a thousand meters,
and picking up a hovertank could all call for you to
roll perform.
The attribute used depends on the performance, and
the GM has final say. The roll is open ended, and the
more successes rolled the better the reaction, with 5
being the kind of performance someone only sees
once in a lifetime.
• Stealth
Attribute: Agility
Stealth is the art of remaining undetected. Any time a
player attempts to avoid detection they are required
to make a stealth check. Their successes become the
DT of any perception checks made to detect them.
• Warfare
Attribute: Reason or Intuition
Warfare represents tactical and strategic skill in com-
bat. It is used to plan battles, ambushes, or entire wars.
If two characters with warfare are in opposition, then
each rolls and compare total successes.
• Crafting
Attribute: Agility or Strength
Crafting is the physical compliment to the engineering
skill, and allows the user to... well craft things. This is
a multipurpose skill, and can be used from carpentry
to gardening to anything else the GM feels a craft
should represent.
Note that if a character with engineering has a forge,
then they don't need the craft skill, though many take
it anyway.
• Artificing
Attribute: Reason or Intuition
The artificing skill allows the user to build magic items,
and to work with magical materials. A character need
not be magically active to take the artificing skill,
however they won't get full use of the skill without
already having the greater path of enchanting.
Artificing can be used with enchanting to infuse life
into a magical item by combining 2 or more magical
materials into a single new lifeform. See the artificing
& magic item creation rules chapter for details.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
SELECT PERKS & FLAWS
STEP 7:
ART BY: TOM EDWARDS
36
a number of successes equal to the target number,
plus 1.
A character may begin play with no more than 3
flaws, and cannot take the same perk or flaw more
than once.”
Characters may choose to select one or more flaws. If
they do so, then they may select a corresponding perk
for each flaw. Flaws are important for more than simply
balancing perks, though.
Each time a flaw comes into play, and the player
successfully roleplays the flaw in a way that impacts
their character, then they are awarded a point of luck.
This is the only way to acquire luck, and luck is highly
sought after.
A point of luck may be spent to reroll any failed roll,
or to automatically succeed at any skill roll. This
automatic success is considered to have generated
FLAWS
COMMON PHYSICAL FLAWS:
• Clumsy
Effect: -1 Agility
You’ve tripped over your own feet more than once, and
it’s only a matter of time before it happens again. Any
time your characters exhibits clumsiness in a way that
impacts them socially or physically the GM may choose
to award them a point of luck.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
37
• Clueless
Effect: -1 to perception checks
You’re always the last to see it, if you see it at all. Any
time your character exhibits lack of awareness in a way
that impacts them socially or physically (walking into
the wrong bathroom, falling into a pit they could have
easily avoided) the GM may choose to award them a
point of luck.
• Skipped Leg Day
Effect: -1 Strength
If you’ve seen the inside of a gym it was accidental. You
are a weakling, and struggle with basic physical tasks
like opening jars. Any time your character is limited by
their lack of strength the GM may choose to award them
a point of luck.
• Food Allergy
Effect: -1 Fortitude
Your character is allergic to a common type of food.
Gluten. Lactose. Sugar. Something makes you puff up
like a grapefruit, and any time this happens during a
situation where your character is negatively impacted
your GM may choose to award you a point of luck.
• Missing Limb
Effect:
Your character is missing an appendage common to
their race. Arms, legs, wings, tail, etc. If you choose an
arm, then you cannot use items that require two hands.
If you choose a leg your movement is reduced by 50%.
Loss of wings removes any gliding or flight.
COMMON SOCIAL FLAWS:
Effect: -1 Charisma
Your face annoys people. They don't like being around
you, and any time this directly impacts you the GM may
choose to award you a point of luck. You get singled out
of crowds by law enforcement. You're denied when you
slip the hostess a 20 for a better table.
• Punchable Face
Effect: -1 to all negotiation checks
You have a general aura of douche-ness. Even if you
don't speak, people just sort of... don't like you. Close
friends and family overlook it, but everyone else goes
out of their way to avoid you. Any time this directly
impacts you the GM may decide to award you a point
of luck.
• Kind of a Dick
Effect: -1 Appearance
You're ugly in a way that offends potential mates. Drinks
get thrown in your face, and a polite no is usually the
best you can hope for when asking for dates.
• Not in Anyone's League
Effect: Your character dresses badly
Your character always wears inappropriate clothing.
Maybe it's the same trench coat and fedora from the
academy. Maybe it's a uniform that is way too tight.
Whatever your character's flair society at large doesn't
appreciate it.
You don't belong in most restaurants, or even most so-
cial situations, and are often ejected or barred entry.
• Fashion Victim
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
38
COMMON MENTAL FLAWS:
• Untouchable
Effect: Socially conscious people avoid you
Whether you are a vagrant, or the child of a mass mur-
derer, or are an ex-con, something tied to your identity
makes you problematic for most people to deal with,
and when they become aware of this fact they will take
steps to distance themselves from you.
• Math is Hard
Effect: -1 Reason
You ate the paint chips as a kid. Any time you are
completely oblivious to something most people would
easily grasp, the GM may choose to award you a point
of luck.
• Bit of a Crackhead
Effect: -1 Will
You have an addiction. It might be a drug. It might
be manabeer. It could be video games. But you have
something you love to engage in compulsively, and are
more vulnerable to temptation. Any time you give in to
that temptation, and are directly screwed as a result,
the GM may award you a point of luck.
• Way Too Literal
Effect: -1 Intuition
You have a tendency to take everything literally. Way
too literally.
Effect: Pick a Phobia
Your character is deathly afraid of something. Maybe
that's spiders. Maybe it's social situations. Whenever
your character is confronted with this fear they react
badly. You get to pick the phobia, and can choose
this flaw more than once. Common examples include
agoraphobia (open spaces), claustrophobia (enclosed
spaces), arachniphobia (spiders).
• P is for Phobia
Effect: Your character steals. Often.
Your character is always stealing things. You get to set
the terms of your "habit", of course. Maybe you don't
steal from friends. Maybe you do. Maybe you only steal
from corporations, or churches, or Wyrms.
But you definitely steal, and sometimes that means
getting caught...
• Kleptomaniac
COMMON MAGIC FLAWS:
• Void Bolt Homing Beacon
Effect: -1 Resistance
Your magical defenses are especially weak, and enemy
mages know it. Good luck. Any time you put yourself in a
situation where you might get hit by a spell your GM may
award you a point of luck.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
39
If your character selected any number of flaws they
may now select an equal number of perks to balance
them. Perks provide no special benefits for roleplaying
them, but you should do it anyway. Or else.
PERKS
PHYSICAL PERKS:
• Really Bad at This Magic Thing
Effect: -1 Spell Pool
Your command over magic is weaker than most mages,
and you have one fewer maximum spell pool than you
otherwise would. Any time you run out of spell points in
a dangerous situation your GM may choose to award
you a point of luck.
• Oops. My bad.
Effect: Technology just breaks around you
Computers mysteriously stop functioning. The naviga-
tion array goes out on your shuttle. Holodisplays short
out near you. Something about you is simply incom-
patible with most technology, and hilarity ensues.
• Do You Even Lift?
Effect: +1 Strength
• Shrug It Off
Effect: +1 Fortitude
MENTAL PERKS:
• Slippery Mofo
Effect: +1 Dodge
• Kick me in the junk. Again!
Effect: +1 Brace
• Built Like Crewes
Effect: +5 Hit points
• Walk It Off
Effect: You heal all hit points after a night’s rest.
• Gifted
Effect: +1 Reason
• Not Buying Your Bullshit
Effect: +1 Will
• Great Instincts
Effect: +1 Intuition
• Eidetic Memory
Effect: You can remember things with photographic
clarity.
• Bravely Run Away
Effect: +1 Agility
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
40
MAGICAL PERKS:
• One More Spell
Effect: +3 Spell Pool
• Savant
Effect: You know an extra spell from a list you
already have access to.
• Magical Security Blanket
Effect: Choose a single eldimagus. As long as you
have this object on your person you gain
+1 spellcasting.
• Is that really how you’re going to cast that?
Effect: +1 Skepticism
SOCIAL PERKS:
• Traffic-Stopping Ass
Effect: +1 Appearance
• Headmaster’s Boy
Effect: You attended a prestigious academy on
Shaya, and everyone knows it. This can
open doors in many quarters.
• King of Bullshitters
Effect: +1 Charisma
• Well Connected
Effect: Your character has a single well-defined
contact placed highly in an organization
such as a temple / government. This can be
purchased more than once.
• My Dad’s Rich
Effect: You grew up wealthy. This doesn’t confer
any special wealth to you, but your parents
or parent are rich, and everyone presumes
they’ll leave their fortune to you.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
PURCHASE DEFENSIVES
STEP 8:
ART BY: TOM EDWARDS
41
Combat encounters are frequent in The Magitech
Chronicles , and all characters begin play with set
of defenses to represent their various strengths and
weaknesses. A character uses their highest applicable
defense in a given situation, unless otherwise stated
by a perk. An attack with fewer successes than your
applicable defense misses.
An attack that meets or exceeds your defense results
in a hit, and allows the attacker to calculate damage.
In the weapon and spells section it will list a damage
type, which corresponds to these defenses.
Each defense begins play at 1, and a character gets
3 points to distribute among them. No defense can be
higher than its limiting attribute.
INNATE DEFENSES:
There are three different types of innate defense.
Innate defenses are applied before an attack hits.
Active defenses are applied after an attack hits, and
are discussed below.
• Brace
Limiting Attribute: Fortitude
Brace represents your ability to shrug off attacks. If
you can’t dodge a punch, laughing it off is the next
best thing. Brace is most often used against melee
weapons, and characters with a low brace are advised
to stay far from the front line of combat.
• Dodge
Limiting Attribute: Agility
The best defense is simply not getting hit in the first
place. Dodge represents your ability to get out of the
way, and is used primarily against ranged attacks or
some spells.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
42
ACTIVE DEFENSES:
If someone’s attack roll exceeds your relevant
defense, then you are given a chance to apply either
armor or resistance. Both are explained below. Any
remaining damage is subtracted from your hit points.
Bad things happen when those go below zero.
• Skepticism
Limiting Attribute: Will
Skepticism represents your ability to resist magical
influences. No one likes having their mind taken over,
and the cynics among us have the best defenses. Any
mage wishing to affect you with a spell must meet or
exceed your skepticism in successes.
• Armor
Certain races (like Wyrms) possess armor. Charac-
ters may also gain armor from various pieces of equip-
ment, magic, or Catalyzations. Armor reduces kinetic
and energy attacks, so five points of armor will cancel
five points of damage from any of those sources.
Some magic can be stopped by physical armor if it
manifests as either a kinetic or energy attack. Other-
wise, the spell goes against the relevant resistance
score.
Resistance functions as armor, but against specific
aspects of magic. If a character is hit by a fire spell, for
example, then either fire resistance or magic resistance
will provide armor against that spell. If that same
character is hit by a void spell their magic resistance
will apply, but not the fire resistance.
Blanket magic resistance is both more powerful
and more rare than resistance to specific aspects.
• Resistance
A character’s base hit points are used to soak up any
damage that gets past their defenses. When their hit
points reach zero they are disabled, and if they suffer
additional damage greater than their fortitude, then
they die.
Hit points are calculated as follows:
(Fortitude x 5) + Archetype bonus
• Hit Points
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
PURCHASE EQUIPMENT
STEP 9:
ART BY: TOM EDWARDS
43
Weapons and equipment can be purchased through-
out the sector. They range in quality and origin, but
almost anything can be found for the right price.
Standard characters begin play with 3,000 credits to
their name, in addition to any awarded by their Path
or Archetype.
Your game master may choose to raise or lower that
amount based on the type of game they're running.
Light weapons are generally inexpensive, and can be
carried easily in one hand. Both spellpistols and light
spellblades are available at every weapon retailer, and
quite a few fueling stations. The galaxy is a dangerous
place, after all.
LIGHT WEAPONS
MARK III LASPISTOL:
• Damage: 4 Physical
• Accuracy: 0
• Limit: 0
• Range: 8
• Ammunition: Fuel cells, 8 shots each. Charged
fuel cells cost 50 credits.
• Defense: Dodge
• Cost: 300 Credits
INURAN MARK III SPELLPISTOL:
• Damage: Spell
• Accuracy: 0
• Limit: 3
• Range: 10
• Ammunition: Spell
• Defense: Skepticism
• Cost: 2,000 Credits
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
44
MARK V LASPISTOL:
• Damage: 4 Physical
• Accuracy: 1
• Limit: 0
• Range: 10
• Ammunition: Fuel cells, 10 shots each. Charged
fuel cells cost 50 credits.
• Defense: Dodge
• Cost: 500 Credits
INURAN MARK V SPELLPISTOL:
• Damage: Spell
• Accuracy: 1
• Limit: 4
• Range: 12
• Ammunition: Spell
• Defense: Skepticism
• Cost: 3,000 Credits
MARK V LASPISTOL:
• Damage: 4 Physical
• Accuracy: 2
• Limit: 0
• Range: 10
• Ammunition: Fuel cells, 12 shots each. Charged
fuel cells cost 50 credits.
• Defense: Dodge
• Cost: 1,000 Credits
INURAN MARK VII SPELLPISTOL:
• Damage: Spell or 4 Physical
• Accuracy: 2
• Limit: 5
• Range: 15
• Ammunition: Spell, Standard or Armor Piercing
• Defense: Skepticism if Spell, or dodge if
Physical.
• Cost: 4,000 Credits
MARK IX LASPISTOL:
• Damage: 5 Physical
• Accuracy: 2
• Limit: 0
• Range: 12
• Ammunition: Fuel cells, 12 shots each. Charged
fuel cells cost 50 credits.
• Defense: Dodge
• Cost: 4,000 Credits
LIGHT 1H SPELLBLADE:
• Damage: 4 Physical + Spell
• Accuracy: 1
• Limit: 3
• Range: 1
• Defense: Brace
• Cost: 2,500 Credits
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
45
Medium weapons are larger and heavier, and require
a minimum 2 strength to use. Most can be used in
either one or two hands, so if a player really wants to
dual-wield spellrifles there’s no reason why they can’t.
MEDIUM WEAPONS
INURAN MARK III SPELLRIFLE:
• Damage: 1 + Spell
• Accuracy: 1
• Limit: 3
• Range: 20
• Defense: Skepticism
• Cost: 2,500 Credits
INURAN MARK V SPELLRIFLE:
• Damage: 2 + Spell
• Accuracy: 1
• Limit: 4
• Range: 25
• Ammunition: Spell
• Defense: Skepticism
• Cost: 3,500 Credits
INURAN MARK VII SPELLRIFLE:
• Damage: 3 + Spell or 6 Physical
• Accuracy: 2
• Limit: 5
• Range: 30
• Ammunition: Spell, Standard or Armor Piercing
• Defense: Skepticism if Spell, or dodge if
Physical.
• Cost: 4,500 Credits
Heavy weapons require a 3 strength to use, and are
generally much more rare than their smaller counter-
parts. Getting your hands on a spellcannon requires a
well stocked weapon retailer, and availability is up to
the GM.
HEAVY WEAPONS
MEDIUM 1H SPELLBLADE:
• Damage: 6 Physical + Spell
• Accuracy: 1
• Limit: 4
• Range: 1
• Defense: Brace
• Cost: 4,500 Credits
LIGHT 1H SPELLSTAVE:
• Damage: 4 Physical + Spell
• Accuracy: 1
• Limit: 4
• Range: 1
• Description: Spellstaves sacrifice damage for
defense, and grant the user +1
brace.
They are a favorite weapon of
True Mages, who seek any means
possible of shoring up their limited
defenses.
• Defense: Brace
• Cost: 4,500 Credits
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
46
INURAN MARK III SPELLCANNON:
• Damage: 4 + Spell in a 10 meter cone
• Accuracy: 0
• Limit: 3
• Range: 10
• Ammunition: Spell
• Defense: Skepticism
• Cost: 3,000 Credits
INURAN MARK V SPELLCANNON:
• Damage: 6 + Spell in a 10 meter cone
• Accuracy: 0
• Limit: 4
• Range: 12
• Ammunition: Spell
• Defense: Skepticism
• Cost: 4,000 Credits
INURAN MARK VII SPELLCANNON:
• Damage: 10 + Spell in a 10 meter cone, or 10
Physical in a 10 meter cone
• Accuracy: 0
• Limit: 5
• Range: 15
• Ammunition: Spell, Explosive Shells
• Defense: Skepticism if Spell, or dodge if
Physical
• Cost: 9,000 Credits
The Cavalier Body Armor line is the New Texas
Military's most recent addition to the galactic stage.
The NTM line is Lightweight, durable, and most
importantly both cheap to manufacture and repair.
It is quickly growing in popularity among mercs, who
can quickly outfit whole units at an affordable price
point.
ARMOR & SHIELDS
TWO-HANDED SPELLBLADE:
• Damage: 10 Physical + Spell
• Accuracy: 0
• Limit: 4
• Range: 2
• Defense: Brace
• Cost: 6,000 Credits
GREATER SPELLSTAVE:
• Damage: 6 Physical + Spell
• Accuracy: 1
• Limit: 4
• Range: 2
• Description: Spellstaves sacrifice damage for
defense, and grant the user +1
brace.
They are a favorite weapon of
True Mages, who seek any means
possible of shoring up their limited
defenses.
• Defense: Brace
• Cost: 4,500 Credits
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
47
NTM CAVALIER LIGHT BODY ARMOR:
• Armor: 1
• Resistance: 0
• Limit: 0
• Effects: Atmospherically contained for up to
two hours, immunity to gas attacks.
• Cost: 300 Credits
NTM CAVALIER BODY ARMOR:
• Armor: 2
• Resistance: 0
• Limit: 0
• Effects: Atmospherically contained for up to
two hours, immunity to gas attacks.
Requires a 2 strength to wear.
• Cost: 500 Credits
NTM CAVALIER HEAVY BODY ARMOR:
• Armor: 3
• Resistance: 0
• Limit: 0
• Effects: Atmospherically contained for up to
two hours, immunity to gas attacks.
Requires a 3 strength to wear.
• Cost: 1,200 Credits
LIGHT SPELLSHIELD:
• Armor: 2
• Resistance: 1
• Limit: 2
• Effects: Can be used to parry spells
• Cost: 2,000 Credits
• Description: The user may still wield a weapon in
their hand if a light spellshield is
affixed to their wrist.
MEDIUM SPELLSHIELD:
• Armor: 3
• Resistance: 1
• Limit: 3
• Effects: Can be used to parry spells
• Cost: 3,000 Credits
• Description: A medium spellshield must be
wielded in the hand, and requires
a minimum of a 2 strength to wield
effectively.
HEAVY SPELLSHIELD:
• Armor: 4
• Resistance: 2
• Limit: 4
• Effects: Can be used to parry spells
• Cost: 4,000 Credits
• Description: A heavy spellshield must be wield-
ed in the hand, and requires a
minimum of a 3 strength to wield
effectively.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
48
INURAN MARK III STANDARD SPELLARMOR:
• Armor: 4
• Resistance: 1
• Limit: 2
• Effects: +1 Strength, Atmospherically
contained for up to two hours,
immunity to gas attacks, provides
4 armor and 1 magic resistance.
• Speed: 45 kph
• Cost: 12,000 Credits
INURAN MARK V STANDARD SPELLARMOR:
• Armor: 5
• Resistance: 3
• Limit: 3
• Effects: +2 Strength, Atmospherically
contained for up to two hours,
immunity to gas attacks, provides
5 armor and 3 magic resistance.
1 potion loader
• Speed: 60 kph
• Cost: 22,000 Credits
INURAN MARK VII STANDARD SPELLARMOR:
• Armor: 6
• Resistance: 4
• Limit: 4
• Effects: +3 Strength, Atmospherically
contained for up to eight hours,
immunity to gas attacks, provides
3 potion loaders
• Speed: 90 kph
• Cost: 171,000 Credits
INURAN MARK IX STANDARD SPELLARMOR:
• Armor: 7
• Resistance: 5
• Limit: 5
• Effects: +4 Strength, Atmospherically
contained for up to eight hours,
immunity to gas attacks,
5 potion loaders
• Speed: 90 kph
• Cost: 971,000 Credits
*Both Scout and Heavy spell armor are less fre-
quently used, and retailers rarely stock anything but
the premium models.
INURAN MARK IX SCOUT SPELLARMOR:
• Armor: 5
• Resistance: 3
• Limit: 5
• Effects: +2 Strength, Atmospherically
contained for up to eight hours,
immunity to gas attacks,
5 potion loaders
• Speed: 120 kph
• Cost: 551,000 Credits
INURAN MARK IX HEAVY SPELLARMOR:
• Armor: 9
• Resistance: 6
• Limit: 5
• Effects: +4 Strength, Atmospherically
contained for up to eight hours,
immunity to gas attacks,
5 potion loaders
• Speed: 60 kph
• Cost: 1,121,000 Credits
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
49
The sector is home to over a dozen major shipyards,
and contains countless foreign vessels from other sec-
tors. There are vehicles created during the epoch of
the dragonflights that are still in use today.
As a general rule nothing is ever discarded if it has a
chassis, and if it is that means it was scrapped for parts
for something that does have a chassis. Vehicles and
ships are incredibly expensive, but well worth it to
any adventurer that can afford them.
VEHICLES
CRAPPY ROLLER:
• Defenses: Brace 2, Dodge 1, Pilot's Skepticism
• Hit Points: 50
• Armor: 5
• Resistance: Yeah right
• Limit: 0
• Effects: Repels people with taste. Gets from
point A to point B.
• Speed: 12
• Velocity: 2
• Cost: 11,000 Credits
• Description: A battered six-wheeled roller that
isn't much to look at, and doesn't
pack it where she counts. The
vehicle is slow, has poor armor, and
no redeeming qualities except that
it beats walking.
NTM ROLLER:
• Defenses: Brace 3, Dodge 1, Pilot's Skepticism
• Hit Points: 80
• Armor: 5
• Resistance: 0
• Limit: 0
• Effects: Gets from point A to point B with a
bit of style.
• Speed: 20
• Velocity: 3
• Cost: 21,000 Credits
• Description: The NTM roller is highly sought
after in every market, because they
just keep working long after most
vehicles would be scrap. They're
not too expensive for the quality,
though well out of reach of most
green adventurers.
INURAN MK III HOVERTANK:
• Defenses: Brace 5, Dodge 2, Pilot's Skepticism
• Hit Points: 150
• Armor: 10
• Resistance: 5
• Damage: 10 + Spell, or based on ammo
• Accuracy: 0
• Range: 15
• Limit: 3
• Ammunition: Spell, Explosive Shells
• Effects: Fits up to 3 crew.
• Speed: 10
• Velocity: 2
• Cost: 450,000 Credits
• Description: The Inuran Mk III Hovertank may be
dated, but it is still tremendously
effective on the battlefield. It boasts
impressive armor, good magical
defenses, and a standard heavy
spellcannon.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
50
INURAN MK V HOVERTANK:
• Defenses: Brace 6, Dodge 3, Pilot's Skepticism
• Hit Points: 250
• Armor: 12
• Resistance: 6
• Damage: 12 + Spell, or based on ammo
• Accuracy: 1
• Range: 20
• Limit: 4
• Ammunition: Spell, Explosive Shells
• Effects: Fits up to 4 crew.
• Speed: 12
• Velocity: 2
• Cost: 750,000 Credits
• Description: The Inuran Mk V is the Mk III's larger,
nastier brother, and is slightly
better in almost every way. If
you've got the credits this is the
finest tank in production, unless
you ask Ternus.
NTM MK III HOVERTANK:
• Defenses: Brace 5, Dodge 2, Pilot's Skepticism
• Hit Points: 250
• Armor: 10
• Resistance: 0
• Damage: 15 / ammo
• Accuracy: 2
• Range: 30
• Ammunition: Gauss Cannon, Explosive Shells
• Effects: Fits up to 4 crew.
• Speed: 12
• Velocity: 2
• Cost: 250,000 Credits
• Description: The NTM Hovertank is the tech
equivalent answer to the Inurans.
It's not as popular, yet, but it is
more affordable. However, the lack
of magical defenses is a clear prob-
lem that the New Texas Military is
looking to solve.
A quick note about starship movement. A click is the
standard unit of measurement, which means whatever
your GM says it means, but is an order of magnitude
greater than regular combat speeds. If a ship is in at-
mosphere, and fighting with vehicles, standard move-
ment rules apply, but the ship's speed is tripled.
SHIPS
CORSAIR MK 7 SPELLFIGHTER:
• Defenses: Brace 1, Dodge 5, Pilot's Skepticism
• Hit Points: 50
• Armor: 6
• Resistance: 3
• Damage: 12 + Spell, or based on ammo
• Accuracy: 3
• Range: 30
• Limit: 4
• Ammunition: Spell, Missiles
• Effects: Fits up to 2 crew.
Contains 1 spellmatrix.
• Speed: 22
• Velocity: 3
• Cost: 1.25 million Credits
• Description: The Corsair packs a punch, and is
incredibly maneuverable, but
cannot stand even a single direct hit
from a large starship. They rely on
speed and stealth to keep them-
selves alive. Captains may select
this vessel as their starting ship.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
51
RUSTY FREIGHTER:
• Defenses: Brace 3, Dodge 4,
2 + Pilot's Skepticism
• Hit Points: 100
• Armor: 9
• Resistance: 0
• Damage: 15
• Accuracy: 1
• Range: 12
• Limit: 0
• Ammunition: Gauss Cannon, Insults
• Effects: Fits up to 12 crew. Standard FTL
drive and fusion reactor installed.
• Speed: 14
• Velocity: 3
• Cost: 2 million Credits, Inherited
• Description: Freighters are the backbone of the
sector's commerce, even ones that
lack a matrix, or the void magic
necessary to utilize the much faster
Umbral Depths. They bring vital
supplies to remote stations, and are
an excellent source of food for
demons, undead, or worse when
their owners blunder to Catalysts.
Captains may select this as their
starting ship.
INURAN CORVETTE:
• Defenses: Brace 4, Dodge 4,
2 + Pilot's Skepticism
• Hit Points: 120
• Armor: 8
• Resistance: 4
• Damage: 15 + Spell
• Accuracy: 1
• Range: 12
• Limit: 5
• Ammunition: Spell
• Effects: Fits up to 20 crew. 1 Spell matrix
installed.
• Speed: 16
• Velocity: 3
• Cost: 9 million Credits
• Description: The Inuran corvette is the vessel of
choice for well-to-do adventurers,
political officials, and anyone else
who wants a small, fast ship that can
hold its own against any other
vessel in its weight class.
INURAN CRUISER:
• Defenses: Brace 5, Dodge 3,
2 + Pilot's Skepticism
• Hit Points: 220
• Armor: 10
• Resistance: 12
• Damage: 20 + Spell, or based on ammo
• Accuracy: 3
• Range: 32
• Limit: 6
• Ammunition: Spell, Missiles
• Effects: Fits up to 280 crew. Contains 3
spellmatrices.
• Speed: 20
• Velocity: 3
• Cost: 120 million Credits
• Description: Inuran Cruisers are lovingly crafted
by the Consortium to meet the needs
of their individual owners. Their
decor, and internal layout, can be
modified to fit a variety of tastes.
The cruiser can hold its own in
combat, while still be designed for
comfort. They even throw in a forge
and foundry.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
52
CONFEDERATE DESTROYER:
• Defenses: Brace 7, Dodge 1,
2 + Pilot's Skepticism
• Hit Points: 300
• Armor: 18
• Resistance: 9
• Damage: 25 + Spell, or based on ammo
• Accuracy: 2
• Range: 30
• Limit: 5
• Ammunition: Spell, Missiles, Gauss Cannons
• Effects: Fits up to 300 crew. Contains
2 spellmatrices.
• Speed: 15
• Velocity: 3
• Cost: 150 million Credits
• Description: The Confederate Destroyers are in
wider production than the battle-
ships, but are still an increasingly
rare sight. They are still in produc-
tion at the New Texas shipyards,
though at reduced capacity from
the war. The destroyers have been
asked to fill the role of carriers,
and are being offered to privateer
captains mostly recruited from
retired Confederate officers.
CONFEDERATE BATTLESHIP:
• Defenses: Brace 9, Dodge 1,
2 + Pilot's Skepticism
• Hit Points: 900
• Armor: 24
• Resistance: 12
• Damage: 40 + Spell, or based on ammo
• Accuracy: 2
• Range: 40
• Limit: 7
• Ammunition: Spell, Missiles, Gauss Cannons
• Effects: Fits up to 1,200 crew. Contains 3
spellmatrices.
• Speed: 12
• Velocity: 3
• Cost: 550 million Credits
• Description: The Confederate Battleships are a
dying breed. Most were lost in the
Battle of Starn, or the subsequent
war with the Krox. Those that sur-
vive are widely feared, and for good
reason. They can take immense
punishment while continuing to
fight, and if armed with nuclear
weapons are able to oppose entire
enemy fleets.
Most existing battleships are damaged, and have
nowhere near full hit points.
BASIC EQUIPMENT
POCKET COMM UNIT:
• Effects: Allows a connection to a quantum
network, or direct communication
to other comms. Comms can form
networks for squads that wish to use
them.
• Cost: 50 - 1,200 Credits
• Description: Pocket comms comes in all shapes
and sizes, and are usually person-
alized to fit the user. The more
expensive models can broadcast
a holographic screen, and include
an earpiece for those without a
harness.
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
53
MAGITECH COMM UNIT:
• Effects: Allows a connection to a quantum
network, or direct communication
to other comms. Comms can form
networks for squads that wish to use
them. Can also receive missives.
• Cost: 250 - 2,200 Credits
• Description: Magitech comms also come in all
shapes and sizes, and are person-
alized to fit the user. The more
expensive models can broadcast
a holographic screen, and include
an earpiece for those without a
harness. The primary difference is
their ability to receive missives.
The vast majority of potions are crafted by Drifters,
the shorter, more rambunctious cousins to the Shayans.
Every Drifter clan keeps their own recipes, and take
the brewing seriously. Almost everything they create
is alcoholic, because if you're going to go through all
the trouble then it sure better get you drunk.
POTIONS & CONSUMABLES
MANA BEER:
• Effects: Instantly restore 3 spellpool. If more
than 3 are consumed in an hour the
imbiber gains the drunk condition.
• Cost: 75 Credits
HEALING BEER:
• Effects: Instantly restore 10 hit points. If
more than 3 are consumed in an
hour the imbiber gains the drunk
condition.
• Cost: 100 Credits
COUNTERSPELL POTION:
• Effects: Allows the imbiber to roll 10 dice to
counter target spell.
• Cost: 150 Credits
GREATER COUNTERSPELL POTION:
• Effects: Provides 5 successes to counter tar-
get spell.
• Cost: 500 Credits
GREATER HEALING BEER:
• Effects: Instantly restore 30 hit points. If
more than 2 are consumed in an
hour the imbiber gains the drunk
condition.
• Cost: 400 Credits
GREATER MANA BEER:
• Effects: Instantly restore 15 spellpool. If
more than 2 are consumed in an
hour the imbiber gains the drunk
condition.
• Cost: 1000 Credits
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
ART BY: TOM EDWARDS
LIGHT 1H SPELLBLADE
LASPISTOL MKIII
LASPISTOL MKVII
SPELLPISTOL MKV
SPELL RIFLE MKV
SPELL RIFLE MKVII
SPELLSTAVE
MEDIUM 1H SPELLBLADE
LIGHT WEAPONS
MEDIUM WEAPONS
54
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
ART BY: TOM EDWARDS
Spell cannon mkv
Spell cannon mkvII
TWO-HANDED SPELLBLADE
GREATER SPELLSTAVE
MASS PRODUCED RIFLE
MASS PRODUCED PISTOL
SPELL DAGGER
HEAVY WEAPONS
OTHER WEAPONS
55
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
ART BY: TOM EDWARDS
VEHICLES
CRAPPY ROLLER
NTM ROLLER
NTM MKIII HOVERTANK
INURAN MKIII HOVERTANK
INURAN MKV HOVERTANK
56
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
ART BY: TOM EDWARDS
SHIPS
RUSTY FREIGHTER
CONFEDERATE DESTROYER
CONFEDERATE BATTLESHIP
INURAN CORVETTE
INURAN CRUISER
57
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
ART BY: TOM EDWARDS
wrym hunter
CONFEDERATE BATTLESHIP
COMMAND BRIDGE
FIGHTER HANGAR
WEAPONS AND MUNITIONS
CARGO BAY
ENGINE AND MAINTENANCE
58
Guest Customer (Order #50021028)
I
A flash went off behind me, and I realized it had
come from a window, which had disappeared into the
equally black wall the black wall. I darted over, and
looked for the source of the flash.
A massive fleet combat played out over a green
world. Starn. The pieces began to fall into place. I
couldn't remember anything from the last few days.
That screamed mindwipe, though I was thankful it
hadn't been total. They could have taken everything
up to and including my childhood, but I still had
everything older than 72 hours.
The ship shook violently as a staccato of pings echo-
ed through the hull. They ended with a massive thump,
and at first I thought we'd been boarded. Then the lights
died, and a moment later the bars flickered out.
Before I could celebrate my freedom the ship's gra-
vity gave, and I tumbled into the wall outside my cell as
the rival gravity source became dominant. My landing
wasn't graceful, but I managed to avoid hurting myself.
And it led to my first piece of luck. A familiar Mk IX
spellrifle lay in a heap of weapons that had tumbled
free. Someone must have forgotten to secure the
locker. Odd that they'd kept the rifle near me. Either
that meant they intended to give it back, or more likely